10.1021/acs.biomac.3c01184$$$The conformation and self-assembly of two pairs of model lipidated tripeptides in aqueous solution are probed using a combination of spectroscopic methods along with cryogenic-transmission electron microscopy (cryo-TEM) and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS). The palmitoylated lipopeptides comprise C(16)-YKK or C(16)-WKK (with two l-lysine residues) or their respective derivatives containing d-lysine (k), i.e., C(16)-Ykk and C(16)-Wkk. All four molecules self-assemble into spherical micelles which show structure factor effects in SAXS profiles due to intermicellar packing in aqueous solution. Consistent with micellar structures, the tripeptides in the coronas have a largely unordered conformation, as probed using spectroscopic methods. The molecules are found to have good cytocompatibility with fibroblasts at sufficiently low concentrations, although some loss of cell viability is noted at the highest concentrations examined (above the critical aggregation concentration of the lipopeptides, determined from fluorescence dye probe measurements). Preliminary tests also showed antimicrobial activity against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria.
10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-23-0184$$$Approximately one-third of endocrine-treated women with estrogen receptor alpha-positive (ER+) breast cancers are at risk of recurrence due to intrinsic or acquired resistance. Thus, it is vital to understand the mechanisms underlying endocrine therapy resistance in ER+ breast cancer to improve patient treatment. Mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) has been shown to be a major metabolic pathway in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) that can activate Src signaling. Here, we found metabolic reprogramming that increases FAO in ER+ breast cancer as a mechanism of resistance to endocrine therapy. A metabolically relevant, integrated gene signature was derived from transcriptomic, metabolomic, and lipidomic analyses in TNBC cells following inhibition of the FAO rate-limiting enzyme carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1 (CPT1), and this TNBC-derived signature was significantly associated with endocrine resistance in patients with ER+ breast cancer. Molecular, genetic, and metabolomic experiments identified activation of AMPK-FAO-oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) signaling in endocrine-resistant ER+ breast cancer. CPT1 knockdown or treatment with FAO inhibitors in vitro and in vivo significantly enhanced the response of ER+ breast cancer cells to endocrine therapy. Consistent with the previous findings in TNBC, endocrine therapy-induced FAO activated the Src pathway in ER+ breast cancer. Src inhibitors suppressed the growth of endocrine-resistant tumors, and the efficacy could be further enhanced by metabolic priming with CPT1 inhibition. Collectively, this study developed and applied a TNBC-derived signature to reveal that metabolic reprogramming to FAO activates the Src pathway to drive endocrine resistance in ER+ breast cancer. SIGNIFICANCE: Increased fatty acid oxidation induced by endocrine therapy activates Src signaling to promote endocrine resistance in breast cancer, which can be overcome using clinically approved therapies targeting FAO and Src.
10.1074/jbc.M116.730523$$$Junctional adhesion molecule C (JAM-C) is an immunoglobulin superfamily protein expressed in epithelial cells, endothelial cells, and leukocytes. JAM-C has been implicated in leukocyte transendothelial migration, angiogenesis, cell adhesion, cell polarity, spermatogenesis, and metastasis. Here, we show that JAM-C undergoes S-palmitoylation on two juxtamembrane cysteine residues, Cys-264 and Cys-265. We have identified DHHC7 as a JAM-C palmitoylating enzyme by screening all known palmitoyltransferases (DHHCs). Ectopic expression of DHHC7, but not a DHHC7 catalytic mutant, enhances JAM-C S-palmitoylation. Moreover, DHHC7 knockdown decreases the S-palmitoylation level of JAM-C. Palmitoylation of JAM-C promotes its localization to tight junctions and inhibits transwell migration of A549 lung cancer cells. These results suggest that S-palmitoylation of JAM-C can be potentially targeted to control cancer metastasis.
10.1007/s00249-023-01697-2$$$The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) matrix protein contains a highly basic region, MA-HBR, crucial for various stages of viral replication. To elucidate the interactions between the polybasic peptide MA-HBR and lipid bilayers, we employed liquid-based atomic force microscopy (AFM) imaging and force spectroscopy on lipid bilayers of differing compositions. In 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC) bilayers, AFM imaging revealed the formation of annulus-shaped protrusions upon exposure to the polybasic peptide, accompanied by distinctive mechanical responses characterized by enhanced bilayer puncture forces. Importantly, our AFM-based force spectroscopy measurements unveiled that MA-HBR induces interleaflet decoupling within the cohesive bilayer organization. This is evidenced by a force discontinuity observed within the bilayer's elastic deformation regime. In POPC/cholesterol bilayers, MA-HBR caused similar yet smaller annular protrusions, demonstrating an intriguing interplay with cholesterol-rich membranes. In contrast, in bilayers containing anionic 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine (POPS) lipids, MA-HBR induced unique annular protrusions, granular nanoparticles, and nanotubules, showcasing its distinctive effects in anionic lipid-enriched environments. Notably, our force spectroscopy data revealed that anionic POPS lipids weakened interleaflet adhesion within the bilayer, resulting in interleaflet decoupling, which potentially contributes to the specific bilayer perturbations induced by MA-HBR. Collectively, our findings highlight the remarkable variations in how the polybasic peptide, MA-HBR, interacts with lipid bilayers of differing compositions, shedding light on its role in host membrane restructuring during HIV-1 infection.
10.1096/fj.202201497RR$$$Caveolae are small flask-shaped invaginations of the surface membrane which are proposed to recruit and co-localize signaling molecules. The distinctive caveolar shape is achieved by the oligomeric structural protein caveolin, of which three isoforms exist. Aside from the finding that caveolin-3 is specifically expressed in muscle, functional differences between the caveolin isoforms have not been rigorously investigated. Caveolin-3 is relatively cysteine-rich compared to caveolins 1 and 2, so we investigated its cysteine post-translational modifications. We find that caveolin-3 is palmitoylated at 6 cysteines and becomes glutathiolated following redox stress. We map the caveolin-3 palmitoylation sites to a cluster of cysteines in its C terminal membrane domain, and the glutathiolation site to an N terminal cysteine close to the region of caveolin-3 proposed to engage in protein interactions. Glutathiolation abolishes caveolin-3 interaction with heterotrimeric G protein alpha subunits. Our results indicate that a caveolin-3 oligomer contains up to 66 palmitates, compared to up to 33 for caveolin-1. The additional palmitoylation sites in caveolin-3 therefore provide a mechanistic basis by which caveolae in smooth and striated muscle can possess unique phospholipid and protein cargoes. These unique adaptations of the muscle-specific caveolin isoform have important implications for caveolar assembly and signaling.
10.1096/fj.202302152R$$$The intramembrane protease gamma-secretase has broad physiological functions, but also contributes to Notch-dependent tumors and Alzheimer's disease. While gamma-secretase cleaves numerous membrane proteins, only few nonsubstrates are known. Thus, a fundamental open question is how gamma-secretase distinguishes substrates from nonsubstrates and whether sequence-based features or post-translational modifications of membrane proteins contribute to substrate recognition. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified several type I membrane proteins with short ectodomains that were inefficiently or not cleaved by gamma-secretase, including 'pituitary tumor-transforming gene 1-interacting protein' (PTTG1IP). To analyze the mechanism preventing cleavage of these putative nonsubstrates, we used the validated substrate FN14 as a backbone and replaced its transmembrane domain (TMD), where gamma-cleavage occurs, with the one of nonsubstrates. Surprisingly, some nonsubstrate TMDs were efficiently cleaved in the FN14 backbone, demonstrating that a cleavable TMD is necessary, but not sufficient for cleavage by gamma-secretase. Cleavage efficiencies varied by up to 200-fold. Other TMDs, including that of PTTG1IP, were still barely cleaved within the FN14 backbone. Pharmacological and mutational experiments revealed that the PTTG1IP TMD is palmitoylated, which prevented cleavage by gamma-secretase. We conclude that the TMD sequence of a membrane protein and its palmitoylation can be key factors determining substrate recognition and cleavage efficiency by gamma-secretase.
10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e24659$$$The in-vitro synthesis of bio-compounds via fermentation is a promising route for bioactive molecules intended for disease control and management. Therefore, this study evaluated the effect of fermentation on the antioxidants, antihyperglycemic and anti-inflammatory properties and the resultant chemometric phytochemical profiles of unripe plantain fruits. The results revealed that Escherichia coli and Propionibacterium spp. are suspected as the key fermenters. The E coli showed negative results to the pathogenicity test; Propionibacterium appeared to be opportunistic. A significant increase in the total polyphenols and protein and decreased flavonoids was recorded in the phytochemical profile of the methanolic extract of the fermented unripe plantain pulp; however, the ascorbic acid content was not significantly altered. The (1)H NMR fingerprint showed that there is a closely related chemical shift among the shorter fermentation time (days 2-6) and the unfermented, while the more extended fermentation periods (days 7-12) with enhanced bioactivities were closely related based on the chemometrics analyses. Furthermore, the UPLC-QTOF-MS analysis annotated the presence of bioactive compounds in the day-9 fermented sample: polyhydroxy glucose conjugates (3-Methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl 6-O-(3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoyl)-beta-D-glucopyranoside), short chain peptide (leucyl-glycyl-glycine), amino acid derivatives (4-Aminophenylalanine, and N-Acetylhistidine), linear and cyclic fatty acid derivatives (palmitoyl putrescine, ricinoleic acid, phytosphingosine, gabalid, rubrenoic acid, 2-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic and cystodienioc acid). The synergistic effect of these newly formed compounds and the increase in the phenolic content of the day-9 fermented unripe plantain may account for its more potent antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antihyperglycemic activity. Therefore, the products obtained from the day 9 fermentation of unripe plantain pulp may serve as potential nutraceutical agents against gastro-enteric sugar digestion and absorption and sugar-induced oxidative stress, inflammation and metabolic disease.
10.1016/j.jbc.2024.105641$$$The ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 1 (CLN1) disease, formerly called infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, is a fatal hereditary neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder. This disease is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the CLN1 gene, encoding palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1 (PPT1). PPT1 catalyzes depalmitoylation of S-palmitoylated proteins for degradation and clearance by lysosomal hydrolases. Numerous proteins, especially in the brain, require dynamic S-palmitoylation (palmitoylation-depalmitoylation cycles) for endosomal trafficking to their destination. While 23 palmitoyl-acyl transferases in the mammalian genome catalyze S-palmitoylation, depalmitoylation is catalyzed by thioesterases such as PPT1. Despite these discoveries, the pathogenic mechanism of CLN1 disease has remained elusive. Here, we report that in the brain of Cln1(-/-) mice, which mimic CLN1 disease, the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1) kinase is hyperactivated. The activation of mTORC1 by nutrients requires its anchorage to lysosomal limiting membrane by Rag GTPases and Ragulator complex. These proteins form the lysosomal nutrient sensing scaffold to which mTORC1 must attach to activate. We found that in Cln1(-/-) mice, two constituent proteins of the Ragulator complex (vacuolar (H(+))-ATPase and Lamtor1) require dynamic S-palmitoylation for endosomal trafficking to the lysosomal limiting membrane. Intriguingly, Ppt1 deficiency in Cln1(-/-) mice misrouted these proteins to the plasma membrane disrupting the lysosomal nutrient sensing scaffold. Despite this defect, mTORC1 was hyperactivated via the IGF1/PI3K/Akt-signaling pathway, which suppressed autophagy contributing to neuropathology. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of PI3K/Akt suppressed mTORC1 activation, restored autophagy, and ameliorated neurodegeneration in Cln1(-/-) mice. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized role of Cln1/Ppt1 in regulating mTORC1 activation and suggest that IGF1/PI3K/Akt may be a targetable pathway for CLN1 disease.
10.3892/mmr.2024.13175$$$Metabolic dysfunction‑associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is an increasingly significant global health burden for which there is currently no effective treatment. The present study aimed to explore the underlying mechanisms and investigate the effects of donafenib and atorvastatin in MASLD. The effects of donafenib and atorvastatin on the activity and lipid metabolism of HepG2 cells were analyzed in vitro. A rat model of MASLD was established induced by a high‑fat diet in vivo. H&E and Oil red O staining were used to observe the improvement in MASLD, western blotting analysis was used to detect the expression of proteins related to fat metabolism and immunofluorescence was used to detect reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. In vitro, donafenib and atorvastatin inhibited lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells. In vivo, donafenib and atorvastatin activated the AMP‑activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway, downregulated the expressions of proteins related to fatty acid synthesis (sterol regulatory element‑binding protein‑1, 3‑hydroxy‑3‑methylglutaryl‑CoA reductase and fatty acid synthase) and upregulated the expression of proteins related to fatty acid beta‑oxidation (carnitine palmitoyl‑transferase 1C and acyl‑CoA oxidase). The levels of free fatty acids, cholesterol and triglycerides in the liver and serum decreased in all three treatment groups. Additionally, donafenib and atorvastatin reduced oxidative stress in the liver tissue and decreased ROS levels. Low‑dose donafenib combined with atorvastatin improved MASLD by regulating fatty acid metabolism and reducing oxidative stress through activation of the AMPK signaling pathway.
10.1042/BCJ20230319$$$Cysteine string protein alpha (CSPalpha), also known as DNAJC5, is a member of the DnaJ/Hsp40 family of co-chaperones. The name derives from a cysteine-rich domain, palmitoylation of which enables localization to intracellular membranes, notably neuronal synaptic vesicles. Mutations in the DNAJC5 gene that encodes CSPalpha cause autosomal dominant, adult-onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (ANCL), a rare neurodegenerative disease. As null mutations in CSP-encoding genes in flies, worms and mice similarly result in neurodegeneration, CSP is evidently an evolutionarily conserved neuroprotective protein. However, the client proteins that CSP chaperones to prevent neurodegeneration remain unclear. Traditional methods for identifying protein-protein interactions such as yeast 2-hybrid and affinity purification approaches are poorly suited to CSP, due to its requirement for membrane anchoring and its tendency to aggregate after cell lysis. Therefore, we employed proximity labelling, which enables identification of interacting proteins in situ in living cells via biotinylation. Neuroendocrine PC12 cell lines stably expressing wild type or L115R ANCL mutant CSP constructs fused to miniTurbo were generated; then the biotinylated proteomes were analysed by liquid chromatographymass spectrometry (LCMS) and validated by western blotting. This confirmed several known CSP-interacting proteins, such as Hsc70 and SNAP-25, but also revealed novel binding proteins, including STXBP1/Munc18-1. Interestingly, some protein interactions (such as Hsc70) were unaffected by the L115R mutation, whereas others (including SNAP-25 and STXBP1/Munc18-1) were inhibited. These results define the CSP interactome in a neuronal model cell line and reveal interactions that are affected by ANCL mutation and hence may contribute to the neurodegeneration seen in patients.
10.3390/ijms25020780$$$Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) plays essential roles in diverse forms of synaptic plasticity, including long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), and homeostatic plasticity. In addition, it assembles into virus-like particles that may deliver mRNAs and/or other cargo between neurons and neighboring cells. Considering this broad range of activities, it is not surprising that Arc is subject to regulation by multiple types of post-translational modification, including phosphorylation, palmitoylation, SUMOylation, ubiquitylation, and acetylation. Here we explore the potential regulatory role of Arc phosphorylation by protein kinase C (PKC), which occurs on serines 84 and 90 within an alpha-helical segment in the N-terminal domain. To mimic the effect of PKC phosphorylation, we mutated the two serines to negatively charged glutamic acid. A consequence of introducing these phosphomimetic mutations is the almost complete inhibition of Arc palmitoylation, which occurs on nearby cysteines and contributes to synaptic weakening. The mutations also inhibit the binding of nucleic acids and destabilize high-order Arc oligomers. Thus, PKC phosphorylation of Arc may limit the full expression of LTD and may suppress the interneuronal transport of mRNAs.
10.1016/j.abb.2024.109919$$$Ketoconazole (Ke) is an important antifungal drug, and two of its diphenylphosphinemethyl derivatives (KeP: Ph(2)PCH(2)-Ke and KeOP: Ph(2)P(O)CH(2)-Ke) have shown improved antifungal activity, namely against a yeast strain lacking ergosterol, suggesting alternative modes of action for azole compounds. In this context, the interactions of these compounds with a model of the cell membrane were investigated, using POPC (1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine) large unilamellar vesicles and taking advantage of the intrinsic fluorescence of Ke, KeP and KeOP. Steady-state fluorescence spectra and anisotropy, including partition and aggregation studies, as well as fluorescence lifetime measurements, were carried out. In addition, the ability of the compounds to increase membrane permeability was assessed through carboxyfluorescein leakage. The membrane/water mole fraction partition coefficients (K(p,x)): (3.31 +/- 0.36) x10(5), (8.31 +/- 1.60) x10(5) and (4.66 +/- 0.72) x10(6), for Ke, KeP and KeOP, respectively, show that all three compounds have moderate to high affinity for the lipid bilayer. Moreover, KeP, and particularly KeOP interact more efficiently with POPC bilayers than Ke, which correlates well with their in vitro antifungal activity. Furthermore, although the three compounds disturb the lipid bilayer, KeOP is the quickest and most efficient one. Hence, the higher affinity and ability to permeabilize the membrane of KeOP when compared to that of KeP, despite the higher lipophilicity of the latter, points to an important role of Ph(2)P(O)CH(2)- oxygen. Overall, this work suggests that membrane interactions are important for the antifungal activity of these azoles and should be considered in the design of new therapeutic agents.
10.1007/s11523-023-01019-8$$$BACKGROUND: Palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1 (PPT1) is a clinical stage druggable target for inhibiting autophagy in cancer. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the cellular and molecular activity of targeting PPT1 using ezurpimtrostat, in combination with an anti-PD-1 antibody. METHODS: In this study we used a transgenic immunocompetent mouse model of hepatocellular carcinoma. RESULTS: Herein, we revealed that inhibition of PPT1 using ezurpimtrostat decreased the liver tumor burden in a mouse model of hepatocellular carcinoma by inducing the penetration of lymphocytes into tumors when combined with anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1). Inhibition of PPT1 potentiates the effects of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy by increasing the expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-I at the surface of liver cancer cells and modulates immunity through recolonization and activation of cytotoxic CD8(+) lymphocytes. CONCLUSIONS: Ezurpimtrostat turns cold tumors into hot tumors and, thus, could improve T cell-mediated immunotherapies in liver cancer.
10.1371/journal.pone.0299972$$$[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166400.].
10.1016/j.bbamem.2023.184264$$$S-palmitoylation is a dynamic lipid-based protein post-translational modification facilitated by a family of protein acyltransferases (PATs) commonly known as DHHC-PATs or DHHCs. It is the only lipid modification that is reversible, and this very fact uniquely qualifies it for therapeutic interventions through the development of DHHC inhibitors. Herein, we report that 4''-alkyl ether lipophilic derivatives of EGCG can effectively inhibit protein S-palmitoylation in vitro. With the help of metabolic labeling followed by copper(I)-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition Click reaction, we demonstrate that 4''-C(14) EGCG and 4''-C(16) EGCG markedly inhibited S-palmitoylation in various mammalian cells including HEK 293T, HeLa, and MCF-7 using both in gel fluorescence as well as confocal microscopy. Further, these EGCG derivatives were able to attenuate the S-palmitoylation to the basal level in DHHC3-overexpressed cells, suggesting that they are plausibly targeting DHHCs. Confocal microscopy data qualitatively reflected spatial and temporal distribution of S-palmitoylated proteins in different sub-cellular compartments and the inhibitory effects of 4''-C(14) EGCG and 4''-C(16) EGCG were clearly observed in the native cellular environment. Our findings were further substantiated by in silico analysis which revealed promising binding affinity and interactions of 4''-C(14) EGCG and 4''-C(16) EGCG with key amino acid residues present in the hydrophobic cleft of the DHHC20 enzyme. We also demonstrated the successful inhibition of S-palmitoylation of GAPDH by 4''-C(16) EGCG. Taken together, our in vitro and in silico data strongly suggest that 4''-C(14) EGCG and 4''-C(16) EGCG can act as potent inhibitors for S-palmitoylation and can be employed as a complementary tool to investigate S-palmitoylation.
10.1021/acs.jpcb.3c07863$$$Membrane fusion is a critical component of the viral lifecycle. For SARS-CoV-2, fusion is facilitated by the spike glycoprotein and can take place via either the plasma membrane or the endocytic pathway. The fusion domain (FD), which is found within the spike glycoprotein, is primarily responsible for the initiation of fusion as it embeds itself within the target cell's membrane. A preference for SARS-CoV-2 to fuse at low pH akin to the environment of the endocytic pathway has already been established; however, the impact of the target cell's lipid composition on the FD has yet to be explored. Here, we have shown that the SARS-CoV-2 FD preferentially initiates fusion at the late endosomal membrane over the plasma membrane, on the basis of lipid composition alone. A positive, fusogenic relationship with anionic lipids from the plasma membrane (POPS: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-l-serine) and endosomal membrane (BMP: bis(monoacylglycero)phosphate) was established, with a large preference demonstrated for the latter. When comparing the binding affinity and secondary structure of the FD in the presence of different anionic lipids, little deviation was evident while the charge was maintained. However, it was discovered that BMP had a subtle, negative impact on lipid packing in comparison to that of POPS. Furthermore, an inverse relationship between lipid packing and the fusogenecity of the SARS-CoV-2 FD was witnessed. In conclusion, the SARS-CoV-2 FD preferentially initiates fusion at a membrane resembling that of the late endosomal compartment, predominately due to the presence of BMP and its impact on lipid packing.
10.1136/gutjnl-2023-330826$$$OBJECTIVE: Whether and how the PI3K-AKT pathway, a central node of metabolic homeostasis, is responsible for high-fat-induced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain a mystery. Characterisation of AKT regulation in this setting will provide new strategies to combat HCC. DESIGN: Metabolite library screening disclosed that palmitic acid (PA) could activate AKT. In vivo and in vitro palmitoylation assay were employed to detect AKT palmitoylation. Diverse cell and mouse models, including generation of AKT1(C77S) and AKT1(C224S) knock-in cells, Zdhhc17 and Zdhhc24 knockout mice and Akt1(C224S) knock-in mice were employed. Human liver tissues from patients with NASH and HCC, hydrodynamic transfection mouse model, high-fat/high-cholesterol diet (HFHCD)-induced NASH/HCC mouse model and high-fat and methionine/choline-deficient diet (HFMCD)-induced NASH mouse model were also further explored for our mechanism studies. RESULTS: By screening a metabolite library, PA has been defined to activate AKT by promoting its palmitoyl modification, an essential step for growth factor-induced AKT activation. Biologically, a high-fat diet could promote AKT kinase activity, thereby promoting NASH and liver cancer. Mechanistically, palmitoyl binding anchors AKT to the cell membrane in a PIP3-independent manner, in part by preventing AKT from assembling into an inactive polymer. The palmitoyltransferases ZDHHC17/24 were characterised to palmitoylate AKT to exert oncogenic effects. Interestingly, the anti-obesity drug orlistat or specific penetrating peptides can effectively attenuate AKT palmitoylation and activation by restricting PA synthesis or repressing AKT modification, respectively, thereby antagonising liver tumorigenesis. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings elucidate a novel fine-tuned regulation of AKT by PA-ZDHHC17/24-mediated palmitoylation, and highlight tumour therapeutic strategies by taking PA-restricted diets, limiting PA synthesis, or directly targeting AKT palmitoylation.
10.1021/acs.jproteome.3c00525$$$Protein S-acylation is a reversible post-translational modification (PTM). It is present on diverse proteins and has important roles in regulating protein function. Aminolysis with hydroxylamine is widely used in the global identification of the PTM. However, the identification is indirect. Distinct criteria have been used for identification, and the false discovery rate has not been addressed. Here, we report a site-specific method for S-acylation identification based on tagging of S-acylation sites with iodoTMT0. Efforts to improve the performance of the method and confidence of identification are discussed, highlighting the importance of reducing contaminant peptides and keeping the recovery rate consistent between aliquots with or without hydroxylamine treatment. With very stringent criteria, presumptive S-acylation sites of 269, 684, 695, and 780 were identified from HK2 cells, HK11 cells, mouse brain, and mouse liver samples, respectively. Among them, the newly identified protein S-acylation sites are equivalent to 34% of human and 24% of mouse S-acylation sites reported previously. In addition, false-positive rates for S-acylation identification and S-acylation abundances were estimated. Significant differences in S-acylation abundance were found from different samples (from 0.08% in HK2 cells to 0.76% in mouse brain), and the false-positive rates were significantly higher for samples with a low abundance of S-acylation.
10.1021/acs.jpclett.3c03281$$$Structural characterization of assemblies in solutions is essential for understanding the relationship between the structure and material properties. In this study, we introduce a novel approach to investigate amphiphilic self-assemblies in solutions using the phospholipid molecule 1-palmitoyl-2-hydroxy-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (Lyso PC) as a (31)P NMR probe. The high natural abundance and gyromagnetic ratio of (31)P make it one of the most sensitive nuclei in the low-frequency region, enabling efficient detection even in dilute solutions. Lyso PC can readily co-assemble with amphiphilic molecules and ions in aqueous solutions, forming various structures, such as hexagonal, lamellar, and micellar assemblies. The characteristic line shapes of these assemblies reflect the chemical environment around the probe and provide insights into the different phase states of the assemblies. This strategy offers a simple, cost-effective, and static method for obtaining structural information about various assemblies. Our work not only introduces a sensitive probe for characterizing assemblies in a solvent environment but also inspires new ideas for the development of similar spectroscopic probes.
10.1021/acs.jpcb.3c04529$$$Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is a water channel protein found primarily in the central nervous system (CNS) that helps to regulate water-ion homeostasis. AQP4 exists in two major isoforms: M1 and M23. While both isoforms have a homotetrameric quaternary structure and are functionally identical when transporting water, the M23 isoform forms large protein aggregates known as orthogonal arrays of particles (OAPs). In contrast, the M1 isoform creates a peripheral layer around the outside of these OAPs, suggesting a thermodynamically stable interaction between the two. Structurally, the M1 isoform has an N-terminal tail that is 22 amino acids longer than the M23 isoform and contains two solvent-accessible cysteines available for S-palmitoylation at cysteine-13 (Cys-13) and cysteine-17 (Cys-17) in the amino acid sequence. Earlier work suggests that the palmitoylation of these cysteines might aid in regulating AQP4 assemblies. This work discusses the thermodynamic driving forces for M1 protein-protein interactions and how the palmitoylation state of M1 affects them. Using temperature-dependent single-particle tracking, the standard state free energies, enthalpies, and entropies were measured for these interactions. Furthermore, we present a binding model based on measured thermodynamics and a structural modeling study. The results of this study demonstrate that the M1 isoform will associate with itself according to the following expressions: 2[AQP4-M1](4) <--> [[AQP4-M1](4)](2) when palmitoylated and 3[AQP4-M1](4) <--> [AQP4-M1](4) + [[AQP4-M1](4)](2) <--> [[AQP4-M1](4)](3) when depalmitoylated. This is primarily due to a conformational change induced by adding the palmitic acid groups at Cys-13 and Cys-17 in the N-terminal tails of the homotetramers. In addition, a statistical mechanical model was developed to estimate the Gibbs free energy, enthalpy, and entropy for forming dimers and trimers. These results were in good agreement with experimental values.
10.1021/acs.jpcb.3c06810$$$Mutual interactions between components of biological membranes are pivotal for maintaining their proper biophysical properties, such as stability, fluidity, or permeability. The main building blocks of biomembranes are lipids, among which the most important are phospholipids (mainly phosphatidylcholines (PCs)) and sterols (mainly cholesterol). Although there is a plethora of reports on interactions between PCs, as well as between PCs and cholesterol, their molecular mechanism has not yet been fully explained. Therefore, to resolve this issue, we carried out systematic investigations based on the classical Langmuir monolayer technique complemented with molecular dynamics simulations. The studies involved systems containing 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DPPC) analogues possessing in the structure one or two polar functional groups similar to those of DPPC. The interactions and rheological properties of binary mixtures of DPPC analogues with 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC) and cholesterol were compared with reference systems (DPPC/POPC and DPPC/cholesterol). This pointed to the importance of the ternary amine group in PC/cholesterol interactions, while in PC mixtures, the phosphate group played a key role. In both cases, the esterified glycerol group had an effect on the magnitude of interactions. The obtained results are crucial for establishing structure-property relationships as well as for designing substitutes for natural lipids.
10.1080/07391102.2024.2306502$$$Protein S-palmitoylation mediated by DHHCs is recognized as a distinct and reversible form of lipid modification connected with several health perturbations, including neurodegenerative disorders, cancer, and autoimmune conditions. However, the pharmacological characteristics of current pan-DHHC inhibitors, particularly their toxicity and off-target effects, have hindered their in-depth cellular investigations. The therapeutic properties of the natural compounds, with minimal side effects, allowed us to evaluate them as DHHC-targeting inhibitors. Here, we performed an insilico screening of 115 phytochemicals to assess their interactions with the DHHC20 binding site. Among these compounds, lutein, 5-hydroxyflavone, and 6-hydroxyflavone exhibited higher binding energy (-9.2, -8.5, and -8.5 kcal/mol) in the DHHC20 groove compared to pan-DHHC inhibitor 2-BP (-7.0 kcal/mol). Furthermore, we conducted a 100 ns MD simulation to evaluate the stability of these complexes under physiological conditions. The MDsimulation results indicated that DHHC20 formed a more stable conformation with lutein compared to 5-hydroxyflavone and 6-hyroxyflavone via hydrophobic and H-bond interactions. Conclusively, these results could serve as a promising starting point for exploring the use of these natural molecules as DHHC20 inhibitors.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
10.1002/elps.202300139$$$The oxidized 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (ox-PAPC) products in human high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) were investigated by low-flow capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (low-flow CE-MS). To accelerate the optimization, native PAPC (n-PAPC) standard was first analyzed by a commercial CE instrument with a photodiode array detector. The optimal separation buffer contained 60% (v/v) acetonitrile, 40% (v/v) methanol, 20 mM ammonium acetate, 0.5% (v/v) formic acid, and 0.1% (v/v) water. The selected separation voltage and capillary temperature were 20 kV and 23 degrees C. The optimal CE separation buffer was then used for the low-flow CE-MS analysis. The selected MS conditions contained heated capillary temperature (250 degrees C), capillary voltage (10 V), and injection time (1 s). No sheath gas was used for MS. The linear range for n-PAPC was 2.5-100.0 microg/mL. The coefficient of determination (R(2) ) was 0.9918. The concentration limit of detection was 1.52 microg/mL, and the concentration limit of quantitation was 4.60 microg/mL. The optimal low-flow CE-MS method showed good repeatability and sensitivity. The ox-PAPC products in human HDLs were determined based on the in vitro ox-PAPC products of n-PAPC standard. Twenty-one ox-PAPC products have been analyzed in human HDLs. Uremic patients showed significantly higher levels of 15 ox-PAPC products than healthy subjects.
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.129731$$$Human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hBMECs) are the main component cells of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and play a crucial role in responding to viral infections to prevent the central nervous system (CNS) from viral invasion. Interferon-inducible transmembrane protein 1 (IFITM1) is a multifunctional membrane protein downstream of type-I interferon. In this study, we discovered that hIFITM1 expression was highly upregulated in hBMECs during Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection. Depletion of hIFITM1 with CRISPR/Cas9 in hBMECs enhanced JEV replication, while overexpression of hIFITM1 restricted the viruses. Additionally, overexpression of hIFITM1 promoted the monolayer formation of hBMECs with a better integrity and a higher transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER), and reduced the penetration of JEV across the BBB. However, the function of hIFITM1 is governed by palmitoylation. Mutations of palmitoylation residues in conserved CD225 domain of hIFITM1 impaired its antiviral capacity. Moreover, mutants retained hIFITM1 in the cytoplasm and lessened its interaction with tight junction protein Occludin. Taken together, palmitoylation of hIFITM1 is essential for its antiviral activity in hBMECs, and more notably, for the maintenance of BBB homeostasis.
10.1016/j.canlet.2024.216696$$$Lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) serves as a key regulator of the Warburg Effect by catalyzing the conversion of pyruvate to lactate in the final step of glycolysis. Both the expression level and enzyme activity of LDHA are upregulated in cancers, however, the underlying mechanism remains incompletely understood. Here, we show that LDHA is post-translationally palmitoylated by ZDHHC9 at cysteine 163, which promotes its enzyme activity, lactate production, and reduces reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Replacement of endogenous LDHA with a palmitoylation-deficient mutant leads to reduced pancreatic cancer cell proliferation, increased T-cell infiltration, and limited tumor growth; it also affects pancreatic cancer cell response to chemotherapy. Moreover, LDHA palmitoylation is upregulated in gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cells. Clinically, ZDHHC9 is upregulated in pancreatic cancer and correlated with poor prognoses for patients. Overall, our findings identify ZDHHC9-mediated palmitoylation as a positive regulator of LDHA, with potentially significant implications for cancer etiology and targeted therapy for pancreatic cancer.
10.1016/j.jlr.2024.100499$$$Ferroptosis is a novel cell death mechanism that is mediated by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation. It may be involved in atherosclerosis development. Products of phospholipid oxidation play a key role in atherosclerosis. 1-palmitoyl-2-glutaroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PGPC) is a phospholipid oxidation product present in atherosclerotic lesions. It remains unclear whether PGPC causes atherosclerosis by inducing endothelial cell ferroptosis. In this study, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were treated with PGPC. Intracellular levels of ferrous iron, lipid peroxidation, superoxide anions (O(2)(*-)), and glutathione were detected, and expression of fatty acid binding protein-3 (FABP3), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), and CD36 were measured. Additionally, the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) was determined. Aortas from C57BL6 mice were isolated for vasodilation testing. Results showed that PGPC increased ferrous iron levels, the production of lipid peroxidation and O(2)(*-), and FABP3 expression. However, PGPC inhibited the expression of GPX4 and glutathione production and destroyed normal MMP. These effects were also blocked by ferrostatin-1, an inhibitor of ferroptosis. FABP3 silencing significantly reversed the effect of PGPC. Furthermore, PGPC stimulated CD36 expression. Conversely, CD36 silencing reversed the effects of PGPC, including PGPC-induced FABP3 expression. Importantly, E06, a direct inhibitor of the oxidized 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonoyl-phosphatidylcholine IgM natural antibody, inhibited the effects of PGPC. Finally, PGPC impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation, ferrostatin-1 or FABP3 inhibitors inhibited this impairment. Our data demonstrate that PGPC impairs endothelial function by inducing endothelial cell ferroptosis through the CD36 receptor to increase FABP3 expression. Our findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of atherosclerosis and a therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
10.1038/nature23887$$$The melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R), a G-protein-coupled receptor, has a crucial role in human and mouse pigmentation. Activation of MC1R in melanocytes by alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) stimulates cAMP signalling and melanin production and enhances DNA repair after ultraviolet irradiation. Individuals carrying MC1R variants, especially those associated with red hair colour, fair skin and poor tanning ability (denoted as RHC variants), are associated with higher risk of melanoma. However, how MC1R activity is modulated by ultraviolet irradiation, why individuals with red hair are more prone to developing melanoma, and whether the activity of RHC variants might be restored for therapeutic benefit are unknown. Here we demonstrate a potential MC1R-targeted intervention strategy in mice to rescue loss-of-function MC1R in MC1R RHC variants for therapeutic benefit by activating MC1R protein palmitoylation. MC1R palmitoylation, primarily mediated by the protein-acyl transferase ZDHHC13, is essential for activating MC1R signalling, which triggers increased pigmentation, ultraviolet-B-induced G1-like cell cycle arrest and control of senescence and melanomagenesis in vitro and in vivo. Using C57BL/6J-Mc1r(e/e)J mice, in which endogenous MC1R is prematurely terminated, expressing Mc1r RHC variants, we show that pharmacological activation of palmitoylation rescues the defects of Mc1r RHC variants and prevents melanomagenesis. The results highlight a central role for MC1R palmitoylation in pigmentation and protection against melanoma.
10.3389/fimmu.2024.1337478$$$Protein S-palmitoylation is a reversible post-translational lipid modification that involves the addition of a 16-carbon palmitoyl group to a protein cysteine residue via a thioester linkage. This modification plays a crucial role in the regulation protein localization, accumulation, secretion, stability, and function. Dysregulation of protein S-palmitoylation can disrupt cellular pathways and contribute to the development of various diseases, particularly cancers. Aberrant S-palmitoylation has been extensively studied and proven to be involved in tumor initiation and growth, metastasis, and apoptosis. In addition, emerging evidence suggests that protein S-palmitoylation may also have a potential role in immune modulation. Therefore, a comprehensive understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of S-palmitoylation in tumor cells and the tumor immune microenvironment is essential to improve our understanding of this process. In this review, we summarize the recent progress of S-palmitoylation in tumors and the tumor immune microenvironment, focusing on the S-palmitoylation modification of various proteins. Furthermore, we propose new ideas for immunotherapeutic strategies through S-palmitoylation intervention.
10.1186/s12915-014-0091-3$$$BACKGROUND: Palmitoylation is a 16-carbon lipid post-translational modification that increases protein hydrophobicity. This form of protein fatty acylation is emerging as a critical regulatory modification for multiple aspects of cellular interactions and signaling. Despite recent advances in the development of chemical tools for the rapid identification and visualization of palmitoylated proteins, the palmitoyl proteome has not been fully defined. Here we sought to identify and compare the palmitoylated proteins in murine fibroblasts and dendritic cells. RESULTS: A total of 563 putative palmitoylation substrates were identified, more than 200 of which have not been previously suggested to be palmitoylated in past proteomic studies. Here we validate the palmitoylation of several new proteins including Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 2, 5 and 10, CD80, CD86, and NEDD4. Palmitoylation of TLR2, which was uniquely identified in dendritic cells, was mapped to a transmembrane domain-proximal cysteine. Inhibition of TLR2 S-palmitoylation pharmacologically or by cysteine mutagenesis led to decreased cell surface expression and a decreased inflammatory response to microbial ligands. CONCLUSIONS: This work identifies many fatty acylated proteins involved in fundamental cellular processes as well as cell type-specific functions, highlighting the value of examining the palmitoyl proteomes of multiple cell types. S-palmitoylation of TLR2 is a previously unknown immunoregulatory mechanism that represents an entirely novel avenue for modulation of TLR2 inflammatory activity.
10.1080/15548627.2023.2275905$$$Macroautophagy/autophagy is a fundamental aspect of eukaryotic biology, and the autophagy-related protein ATG9A is part of the core machinery facilitating this process. In addition to ATG9A vertebrates encode ATG9B, a poorly characterized paralog expressed in a subset of tissues. Herein, we characterize the structure of human ATG9B revealing the conserved homotrimeric quaternary structure and explore the conformational dynamics of the protein. Consistent with the experimental structure and computational chemistry, we establish that ATG9B is a functional lipid scramblase. We show that ATG9B can compensate for the absence of ATG9A in starvation-induced autophagy displaying similar subcellular trafficking and steady-state localization. Finally, we demonstrate that ATG9B can form a heteromeric complex with ATG2A. By establishing the molecular structure and function of ATG9B, our results inform the exploration of niche roles for autophagy machinery in more complex eukaryotes and reveal insights relevant across species.Abbreviation: ATG: autophagy related; CHS: cholesteryl hemisuccinate; cryo-EM: single-particle cryogenic electron microscopy; CTF: contrast transfer function: CTH: C- terminal alpha helix; FSC: fourier shell correlation; HDIR: HORMA domain interacting region; LMNG: lauryl maltose neopentyl glycol; MD: molecular dynamics simulations; MSA: multiple sequence alignment; NBD-PE: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine-N-(7-nitro-2-1,3-benzoxadiazol-4-yl ammonium salt); POPC: palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine; RBG: repeating beta groove domain; RMSD: root mean square deviation; SEC: size-exclusion chromatography; TMH: transmembrane helix.
10.1242/jcs.261645$$$RhoU is an atypical member of the Rho family of small G-proteins, which has N- and C-terminal extensions compared to the classic Rho GTPases RhoA, Rac1 and Cdc42, and associates with membranes through C-terminal palmitoylation rather than prenylation. RhoU mRNA expression is upregulated in prostate cancer and is considered a marker for disease progression. Here, we show that RhoU overexpression in prostate cancer cells increases cell migration and invasion. To identify RhoU targets that contribute to its function, we found that RhoU homodimerizes in cells. We map the region involved in this interaction to the C-terminal extension and show that C-terminal palmitoylation is required for self-association. Expression of the isolated C-terminal extension reduces RhoU-induced activation of p21-activated kinases (PAKs), which are known downstream targets for RhoU, and induces cell morphological changes consistent with inhibiting RhoU function. Our results show for the first time that the activity of a Rho family member is stimulated by self-association, and this is important for its activity.
10.1182/blood-2009-03-213876$$$Activating mutations of NRAS are common in acute myeloid leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, and myelodysplastic syndrome. Like all RAS proteins, NRAS must undergo a series of post-translational modifications for differential targeting to distinct membrane subdomains. Although farnesylation is the obligatory first step in post-translational modifications of RAS, to date, successes of therapies targeting farnesyl protein transferase are modest. Other RAS modifications, such as palmitoylation, are required for optimal plasma membrane association of RAS proteins. However, the relative importance of these latter modifications of RAS in leukemogenesis is not clear. We have previously shown that expression of oncogenic NRAS using a bone marrow transduction and transplantation model efficiently induces a chronic myelomonocytic leukemia- or acute myeloid leukemia-like disease in mice. Here we examined the role of palmitoylation in NRAS leukemogenesis using this model. We found that palmitoylation is essential for leukemogenesis by oncogenic NRAS. We also found that farnesylation is essential for NRAS leukemogenesis, yet through a different mechanism from that of palmitoylation deficiency. This study demonstrates, for the first time, that palmitoylation is an essential process for NRAS leukemogenesis and suggests that the development of therapies targeting RAS palmitoylation may be effective in treating oncogenic NRAS-associated malignancies.
10.1186/s12944-024-02014-2$$$BACKGROUND: As independent and correctable risk factors, disturbances in lipid metabolism are significantly associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). This research investigated the mechanism underlying the lipid-regulating effects of Yam Gruel in diabetic rats. METHODS: First, rats in the control group were given a normal diet, and a diabetic rat model was established via the consumption of a diet that was rich in both fat and sugar for six weeks followed by the intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (STZ). After the model was established, the rats were divided into five distinct groups: the control group, model group, Yam Gruel (SYZ) group, metformin (MET) group, and combined group; each treatment was administered for six weeks. The fasting blood glucose (FBG), body and liver weights as well as liver index of the rats were determined. Total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), aspartic acid transaminase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and nonesterified fatty acid (NEFA) levels were measured. Oil Red O staining was used to assess hepatic steatosis. In addition, the levels of Phospho-acetyl-CoA carboxylase (p-ACC), acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), Phospho-AMPK (p-AMPK), carnitine palmitoyl transferase I (CPT-1), and Malonyl-CoA decarboxylase (MLYCD) in liver tissues were measured by real-time PCR (q-PCR) and western blotting. RESULTS: After 6 weeks of treatment, Yam Gruel alone or in combination with metformin significantly reduced FBG level, liver weight and index. The concentrations of lipid indices (TG, TC, NEFA, and LDL-C), the levels of liver function indices (ALT and AST) and the degree of hepatic steatosis was improved in diabetic rats that were treated with Yam Gruel with or without metformin. Furthermore, Yam Gruel increased the protein levels of p-ACC/ACC, p-AMPK/AMPK, MLYCD, and CPT-1, which was consistent with the observed changes in gene expression. Additionally, the combination of these two agents was significantly more effective in upregulating the expression of AMPK pathway-related genes and proteins. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated that Yam Gruel may be a potential diet therapy for improving lipid metabolism in T2DM patients and that it may exert its effects via AMPK/ACC/CPT-1 pathway activation. In some respects, the combination of Yam Gruel and metformin exerted more benefits effects than Yam Gruel alone.
10.1021/jacs.3c06397$$$Ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal protein 5 (Cln5) is encoded by the CLN5 gene. The genetic variants of this gene are associated with the CLN5 form of Batten disease. Recently, the first crystal structure of Cln5 was reported. Cln5 shows cysteine palmitoyl thioesterase S-depalmitoylation activity, which was explored via fluorescent emission spectroscopy utilizing the fluorescent probe DDP-5. In this work, the mechanism of the reaction between Cln5 and DDP-5 was studied computationally by applying a QM/MM methodology at the omegaB97X-D/6-31G(d,p):AMBER level. The results of our study clearly demonstrate the critical role of the catalytic triad Cys(280)-His(166)-Glu(183) in S-depalmitoylation activity. This is evidenced through a comparison of the pathways catalyzed by the Cys(280)-His(166)-Glu(183) triad and those with only Cys(280) involved. The computed reaction barriers are in agreement with the catalytic efficiency. The calculated Gibb's free-energy profile suggests that S-depalmitoylation is a rate-limiting step compared to the preceding S-palmitoylation, with barriers of 26.1 and 25.3 kcal/mol, respectively. The energetics were complemented by monitoring the fluctuations in the electron density distribution through NBO charges and bond strength alterations via local mode stretching force constants during the catalytic pathways. This comprehensive protocol led to a more holistic picture of the reaction mechanism at the atomic level. It forms the foundation for future studies on the effects of gene mutations on both the S-palmitoylation and S-depalmitoylation steps, providing valuable data for the further development of enzyme replacement therapy, which is currently the only FDA-approved therapy for childhood neurodegenerative diseases, including Batten disease.
10.1039/d3fo04977a$$$The lack of studies evaluating the chemical responses of kombucha microorganisms when exposed to plants is notable in the literature. Therefore, this work investigates the chemical behaviour of 7-, 14- and 21 day-fermentation of kombucha derived from three extracts obtained from banana inflorescence, black tea, and grape juice. After the acquisition of UPLC-ESI-MS data, GNPS molecular networking, MS-Dial, and MS-Finder were used to chemically characterize the samples. The microbial chemical responses were enzymatic hydrolysis, oxidation, and biosynthesis. The biosynthesis was different among the kombucha samples. In fermented black tea, gallic and dihydrosinapic acids were found as hydrolysis products alongside a sugar-derived product namely 7-(alpha-D-glucopyranosyloxy)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyheptanoic acid. The sphingolipids, safingol and cedefingol alongside capryloyl glycine and palmitoyl proline were identified. In fermented grapes, sugar degradation and chemical transformation products were detected together with three cell membrane hopanoids characterized as hydroxybacteriohopanetetrol cyclitol ether, (Delta6 or Delta11)-hydroxybacteriohopanetetrol cyclitol ether, and methyl (Delta6 or Delta11)-hydroxybacteriohopanetetrol cyclitol. The fermented banana blossom showed the presence of methyl (Delta6 or Delta11)-hydroxybacteriohopanetetrol cyclitol together with sphingofungin B, sphinganine and other fatty acid derivatives. Parts of these samples were tested for their inhibition against alpha-glucosidase and their antioxidant effects. Except for the 14-day fermented extracts, other black tea extracts showed significant inhibition of alpha-glucosidase ranging from 42.5 to 42.8%. A 14-day fermented extract of the banana blossom infusion showed an inhibition of 29.1%, while grape samples were less active than acarbose. The 21-day fermented black tea extract showed moderate antioxidant properties on a DPPH-based model with an EC(50) of 5.29 +/- 0.10 mug mL(-1), while the other extracts were weakly active (EC(50) between 80.76 and 168.12 mug mL(-1)).
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2024.113747$$$This study investigates the interaction between sakuranetin, a versatile pharmaceutical flavonoid, and monolayers composed of unsaturated phospholipids, serving as a surrogate for cell membranes. The phospholipids were 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC) and 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (POPE). We conducted a series of experiments to comprehensively investigate this interaction, including surface pressure assessments, Brewster angle microscopy (BAM), and polarization-modulated infrared reflection-absorption spectroscopy (PM-IRRAS). Our findings unequivocally demonstrate that sakuranetin interacts with these phospholipids, expanding the monomolecular films. Notably, regarding POPC, the presence of sakuranetin led to a reduction in stability and a decline in surface elasticity, which can likely be attributed to intricate molecular rearrangements at the interface. The visual evidence of aggregations in BAM images reinforces the interactions substantiated by PM-IRRAS, highlighting sakuranetin's interaction with the polar and nonpolar regions of POPC. However, it is worth noting that these aggregations do not appear to contribute significantly to the viscosity of the mixed film, and our investigations did not reveal any substantial hysteresis. In contrast, when examining POPE, we observed a minor reduction in thermodynamic stability, indicative of fewer rearrangements within the monolayer. This notion was further reinforced by the limited presence of aggregations in the BAM images. Sakuranetin also increased the rigidity of the lipid monolayer; nevertheless, the monolayer remained predominantly elastic, facilitating easy re-spreading on the surface, especially for the first lipid. PM-IRRAS analysis unveiled interactions between sakuranetin and POPE's polar and nonpolar segments, compellingly explaining the observed monolayer expansion. Taken together, our data suggest that sakuranetin was more effectively incorporated into the monomolecular layer of POPE, indicating that membranes comprised of POPC might exhibit a greater degree of interaction in the presence of this pharmacologically active compound.
10.1101/2024.01.17.576124$$$Clathrin/dynamin-independent endocytosis of ordered plasma membrane domains (ordered membrane domain endocytosis, OMDE) can become massive in response to cytoplasmic Ca elevations, G protein activation by non-hydrolyzable GTP analogs, and enhanced oxidative metabolism. In patch-clamped murine bone marrow macrophages (BMMs), cytoplasmic succinate and pyruvate, but not beta-hydroxybutyrate, induce OMDE of 75% of the plasma membrane within 2 min. The responses require palmitoylation of membrane proteins, being decreased by 70% in BMMs lacking the acyltransferase, DHHC5, by treatment with carnitine to shift long-chain acyl groups from cytoplasmic to mitochondrial acyl-CoAs, by bromopalmitate/albumin complexes to block DHHCs, and by the mitochondria-specific cyclosporin, NIM811, to block permeability transition pores that may release mitochondrial coenzyme A into the cytoplasm. Using T-REx293 cells, OMDE amounts to 40% with succinate, pyruvate, or GTPgammaS, and it is inhibited by actin cytoskeleton disruption. Pyruvate-induced OMDE is blocked by the hydrophobic antioxidant, edaravone, which prevents permeability transition pore openings. Using fluorescent 3kD dextrans to monitor endocytosis, OMDE appears to be constitutively active in T-REx293 cells but not in BMMs. After 1 h without substrates or bicarbonate, pyruvate and hydroxybutyrate inhibit constitutive OMDE, as expected for a shift of CoA from long-chain acyl-CoAs to other CoA metabolites. In the presence of bicarbonate, pyruvate strongly enhances OMDE, which is then blocked by beta-hydroxybutyrate, bromopalmitate/albumin complexes, cyclosporines, or edaravone. After pyruvate responses, T-REx293 cells grow normally with no evidence for apoptosis. Fatty acid-free albumin (15 muM) inhibits basal OMDE in T-REx293 cells, as do cyclosporines, carnitine, and RhoA blockade. Surprisingly, OMDE in the absence of substrates and bicarbonate is not inhibited by siRNA knockdown of the acyltransferases, DHHC5 or DHHC2, which are required for activated OMDE in patch clamp experiments. We verify biochemically that small CoA metabolites decrease long-chain acyl-CoAs. We verify also that palmitoylations of many PM-associated proteins decrease and increase when OMDE is inhibited and stimulated, respectively, by different metabolites. STED microscopy reveals that vesicles formed during constitutive OMDE in T-REX293 cells have 90 to 130 nm diameters. In summary, OMDE is likely a major G-protein-dependent endocytic mechanism that can be constitutively active in some cell types, albeit not BMMs. OMDE depends on different DHHC acyltransferases in different circumstances and can be limited by local supplies of fatty acids, CoA, and long-chain acyl-CoAs.
10.1016/j.psj.2024.103482$$$Fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) is a prevalent metabolic disorder observed in egg-laying hens, characterized by fatty deposits and cellular steatosis in the liver. Our preliminary investigations have revealed a marked decrease in the concentration of butyric acid in the FLHS strain of laying hens. It has been established that sodium butyrate (NaB) protects against metabolic disorders. However, the underlying mechanism by which butyrate modulates hepato-lipid metabolism to a great extent remains unexplored. In this study, we constructed an isolated in vitro model of chicken primary hepatocytes to induce hepatic steatosis by free fatty acids (FFA). Our results demonstrate that treatment with NaB effectively mitigated FFA-induced hepatic steatosis in chicken hepatocytes by inhibiting lipid accumulation, downregulating the mRNA expression of lipo-synthesis-related genes (sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1), acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1(ACC1), fatty acid synthase (FASN), stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), liver X receptor alpha (LXRalpha), 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGR)) (P < 0.05), and upregulating the mRNA and protein expression of AMP-activated protein kinase alpha1 (AMPKalpha1), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha), and carnitine palmitoyl-transferase 1A (CPT1A) (P < 0.05). Moreover, AMPK and PPARalpha inhibitors (Compound C (Comp C) and GW6471, respectively) reversed the protective effects of NaB against FFA-induced hepatic steatosis by blocking the AMPK/PPARalpha pathway, leading to lipid droplet accumulation and triglyceride (TG) contents in chicken primary hepatocytes. With these findings, NaB can alleviate hepatocyte lipoatrophy injury by activating the AMPK/PPARalpha pathway, promoting fatty acid oxidation, and reducing lipid synthesis in chicken hepatocytes, potentially being able to provide new ideas for the treatment of FLHS.
10.1128/mbio.00373-24$$$The STimulator of INterferon Genes (STING) constitutes a major DNA-sensing pathway that restricts HSV-1 infection in different models by activating type I interferon and pro-inflammatory responses. To counteract STING, HSV-1 has evolved numerous strategies including mechanisms to interfere with its oligomerization, post-translational modifications, and downstream signaling. Previously, we demonstrated that STING is packaged in extracellular vesicles (EVs) produced from HSV-1-infected cells. These EVs activated antiviral responses in uninfected recipient cells and suppressed a subsequent HSV-1 infection in a STING-dependent manner. Here, we provide information on the packaging of STING in EVs and its exocytosis. We found that STING exocytosis did not occur in CD63 knockdown cells supporting that STING follows the CD63 exocytosis pathway. Consistently, we found that STING co-localized with CD63 in cytoplasmic globular structures and exosomal STING and CD63 co-fractionated. Both golgicide A and brefeldin A prevented STING exocytosis during HSV-1 infection suggesting that STING trafficking through the Golgi is required. A STING ligand was insufficient for STING exocytosis, and downstream signaling through TBK1 was not required. However, STING palmitoylation and tethering to the ER by STIM1 were required for STING exocytosis. Finally, we found that HSV-1 replication/late gene expression triggered CD63 exocytosis that was required for STING exocytosis. Surprisingly, HSV-2 strain G did not trigger CD63 or STING exocytosis as opposed to VZV and HCMV. Also, EVs from HSV-1(F)- and HSV-2(G)-infected cells displayed differences in their ability to restrict these viruses. Overall, STING exocytosis is induced by certain viruses and shapes the microenvironment of infection.IMPORTANCEExtracellular vesicles (EVs) are released by all types of cells as they constitute a major mechanism of intercellular communication. The packaging of specific cargo in EVs and the pathway of exocytosis are not fully understood. STING is a sensor of a broad spectrum of pathogens and a key component of innate immunity. STING exocytosis during HSV-1 infection has been an intriguing observation, raising questions of whether this is a virus-induced process, the purpose it serves, and whether it is observed after infection with other viruses. Here, we have provided insights into the pathway of STING exocytosis and determined factors involved. STING exocytosis is a virus-induced process and not a response of the host to the infection. Besides HSV-1, other herpes viruses triggered STING exocytosis, but HSV-2(G) did not. HSV-1 EVs displayed different restriction capabilities compared with HSV-2(G) EVs. Overall, STING exocytosis is triggered by viruses to shape the microenvironment of infection.
10.1124/jpet.123.001685$$$Proteinase-activated receptor-2 (PAR2), which modulates inflammatory responses, is elevated in the central nervous system in multiple sclerosis (MS) and in its murine model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In PAR2-null mice, disease severity of EAE is markedly diminished. We therefore tested whether inhibiting PAR2 activation in vivo might be a viable strategy for the treatment of MS. Using the EAE model, we show that a PAR2 antagonist, the pepducin palmitoyl-RSSAMDENSEKKRKSAIK-amide (P2pal-18S), attenuates EAE progression by affecting immune cell function. P2pal-18S treatment markedly diminishes disease severity and reduces demyelination, as well as the infiltration of T-cells and macrophages into the central nervous system. Moreover, P2pal-18S decreases granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) production and T-cell activation in cultured splenocytes and prevents macrophage polarization in vitro. We conclude that PAR2 plays a key role in regulating neuroinflammation in EAE and that PAR2 antagonists represent promising therapeutic agents for treating MS and other neuroinflammatory diseases. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Proteinase-activated receptor-2 modulates inflammatory responses and is increased in multiple sclerosis lesions. We show that the proteinase-activated receptor-2 antagonist palmitoyl-RSSAMDENSEKKRKSAIK-amide reduces disease in the murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model of multiple sclerosis by inhibiting T-cell and macrophage activation and infiltration into the central nervous system, making it a potential treatment for multiple sclerosis.
10.3390/ijms25021073$$$The prevalence of obesity and obesity-related pathologies is lower in frequent cannabis users compared to non-users. It is well established that the endocannabinoid system has an important role in the development of obesity. We recently demonstrated that prolonged oral consumption of purified Delta-9 Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), but not of cannabidiol (CBD), ameliorates diet-induced obesity and improves obesity-related metabolic complications in a high-fat diet mouse model. However, the effect of commercially available medical cannabis oils that contain numerous additional active molecules has not been examined. We tested herein the effects of THC- and CBD-enriched medical cannabis oils on obesity parameters and the gut microbiota composition of C57BL/6 male mice fed with either a high-fat or standard diet. We also assessed the levels of prominent endocannabinoids and endocannabinoid-like lipid mediators in the liver. THC-enriched extract prevented weight gain by a high-fat diet and attenuated diet-induced liver steatosis concomitantly with reduced levels of the lipid mediators palmitoyl ethanolamide (PEA) and docosahexaenoyl ethanolamide (DHEA) in the liver. In contrast, CBD-enriched extract had no effect on weight gain, but, on the contrary, it even exacerbated liver steatosis. An analysis of the gut microbiota revealed that mainly time but not treatment exerted a strong effect on gut microbiota alterations. From our data, we conclude that THC-enriched cannabis oil where THC is the main constituent exerts the optimal anti-obesity effects.
10.1038/s41598-024-55167-6$$$Given that ketogenic diets (KDs) are extremely high in dietary fat, we compared different fats in KDs to determine which was the best for cancer prevention. Specifically, we compared a Western and a 15% carbohydrate diet to seven different KDs, containing either Western fats or fats enriched in medium chain fatty acids (MCTs), milk fat (MF), palm oil (PO), olive oil (OO), corn oil (CO) or fish oil (FO) for their ability to reduce nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone (NNK)-induced lung cancer in mice. While all the KDs tested were more effective at reducing lung nodules than the Western or 15% carbohydrate diet, the FO-KD was most effective at reducing lung nodules. Correlating with this, mice on the FO-KD had low blood glucose and the highest beta-hydroxybutyrate level, lowest liver fatty acid synthase/carnitine palmitoyl-1a ratio and a dramatic increase in fecal Akkermansia. We found no liver damage induced by the FO-KD, while the ratio of total cholesterol/HDL was unchanged on the different diets. We conclude that a FO-KD is superior to KDs enriched in other fats in reducing NNK-induced lung cancer, perhaps by being the most effective at skewing whole-body metabolism from a dependence on glucose to fats as an energy source.
10.1042/BST20221296$$$Despite the well-established functions of protein palmitoylation in fundamental cellular processes, the roles of this reversible post-translational lipid modification in cardiomyocyte biology remain poorly studied. Palmitoylation is catalyzed by a family of 23 zinc finger and Asp-His-His-Cys domain-containing S-acyltransferases (zDHHC enzymes) and removed by select thioesterases of the lysophospholipase and alpha/beta-hydroxylase domain (ABHD)-containing families of serine hydrolases. Recently, studies utilizing genetic manipulation of zDHHC enzymes in cardiomyocytes have begun to unveil essential functions for these enzymes in regulating cardiac development, homeostasis, and pathogenesis. Palmitoylation co-ordinates cardiac electrophysiology through direct modulation of ion channels and transporters to impact their trafficking or gating properties as well as indirectly through modification of regulators of channels, transporters, and calcium handling machinery. Not surprisingly, palmitoylation has roles in orchestrating the intracellular trafficking of proteins in cardiomyocytes, but also dynamically fine-tunes cardiomyocyte exocytosis and natriuretic peptide secretion. Palmitoylation has emerged as a potent regulator of intracellular signaling in cardiomyocytes, with recent studies uncovering palmitoylation-dependent regulation of small GTPases through direct modification and sarcolemmal targeting of the small GTPases themselves or by modification of regulators of the GTPase cycle. In addition to dynamic control of G protein signaling, cytosolic DNA is sensed and transduced into an inflammatory transcriptional output through palmitoylation-dependent activation of the cGAS-STING pathway, which has been targeted pharmacologically in preclinical models of heart disease. Further research is needed to fully understand the complex regulatory mechanisms governed by protein palmitoylation in cardiomyocytes and potential emerging therapeutic targets.
10.1038/s41580-024-00700-8$$$Over the past two decades, protein S-acylation (often referred to as S-palmitoylation) has emerged as an important regulator of vital signalling pathways. S-Acylation is a reversible post-translational modification that involves the attachment of a fatty acid to a protein. Maintenance of the equilibrium between protein S-acylation and deacylation has demonstrated profound effects on various cellular processes, including innate immunity, inflammation, glucose metabolism and fat metabolism, as well as on brain and heart function. This Review provides an overview of current understanding of S-acylation and deacylation enzymes, their spatiotemporal regulation by sophisticated multilayered mechanisms, and their influence on protein function, cellular processes and physiological pathways. Furthermore, we examine how disruptions in protein S-acylation are associated with a broad spectrum of diseases from cancer to autoinflammatory disorders and neurological conditions.
10.7150/ijbs.86888$$$Neuropathic cancer pain (NCP) is an important symptom in patients with cancer. However, significant analgesic tolerance and other side effects critically hamper the administration of morphine. Protein palmitoylation mediated by the DHHC family may be involved in the glial activation and inflammatory responses underlying organ failure. In this study, we investigated the key role of protein palmitoylation in cancer pain and sought to target palmitoylation to suppress morphine tolerance. We found that long-term use of morphine led to the accumulation of the morphine metabolite, morphine-3-glucuronide, in vivo and activated ERK1/2 and microglia to release inflammatory factors through the apelin receptor APLNR. Palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC9 was upregulated in NCP, and APLNR was palmitylated to protect it from lysosomal degradation and to maintain its stability. We also designed competitive inhibitors of APLNR palmitoylation to inhibit the development of NCP, release of inflammatory factors, and attenuation of morphine tolerance. Therefore, targeting APLNR palmitoylation in combination with morphine is a potent method for cancer pain treatment. Our data provide a basis for the future clinical use of related drugs combined with morphine for the treatment of cancer-related pain.
10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.149325$$$BACKGROUND: Protein S-palmitoylation is a reversible posttranslational modification widely involved in tumor progression. Nevertheless, the function of palmitoylation metabolism in prognosis and tumor microenvironment characteristics in liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) patients is not fully understood. METHODS: mRNA and clinical data of LIHC patients were obtained from the TCGA and ICGC databases. Consensus clustering was used to construct palmitoylation metabolism-related clusters. Univariate Cox and Lasso regression analyses were employed to establish a palmitoylation metabolism-related signature (PMS). ssGSEA was applied to evaluate the immune cell score in each LIHC sample. Functional enrichments were accessed through GO, KEGG and GSVA. Drug sensitivity data were downloaded from the GDSC database. RESULTS: Three palmitoylation metabolism-related clusters with different prognostic and immune infiltration characteristics were constructed in LIHC. We identified PMS with distinct survival, clinical, and tumor immune microenvironment characteristics. The high PMS group had a poorer prognosis, higher infiltration of immunosuppressive cells and higher expression of immune checkpoints. ZDHHC20 exerted a tumor-promoting role in LIHC and was significantly associated with immunosuppressive cells and immunosuppressive checkpoints. Additionally, in HepG-2 and SMCC-7721 cells, si-ZDHHC20 boosted apoptosis but decreased proliferation and migration when compared to si-NC. CONCLUSION: Our research revealed that PMS may accurately predict the prognosis and immune characteristics of LIHC patients. ZDHHC20 has significant clinical and immune relevance in LIHC and may contribute to the formulation of new targets for LIHC immunotherapy.
10.1007/s00018-024-05116-3$$$In hormone-responsive breast cancer cells, progesterone (P4) has been shown to act via its nuclear receptor (nPR), a ligand-activated transcription factor. A small fraction of progesterone receptor is palmitoylated and anchored to the cell membrane (mbPR) forming a complex with estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha). Upon hormone exposure, either directly or via interaction with ERalpha, mbPR activates the SRC/RAS/ERK kinase pathway leading to phosphorylation of nPR by ERK. Kinase activation is essential for P4 gene regulation, as the ERK and MSK1 kinases are recruited by the nPR to its genomic binding sites and trigger chromatin remodeling. An interesting open question is whether activation of mbPR can result in gene regulation in the absence of ligand binding to intracellular progesterone receptor (iPR). This matter has been investigated in the past using P4 attached to serum albumin, but the attachment is leaky and albumin can be endocytosed and degraded, liberating P4. Here, we propose a more stringent approach to address this issue by ensuring attachment of P4 to the cell membrane via covalent binding to a stable phospholipid. This strategy identifies the actions of P4 independent from hormone binding to iPR. We found that a membrane-attached progestin can activate mbPR, the ERK signaling pathway leading to iPR phosphorylation, initial gene regulation and entry into the cell cycle, in the absence of detectable intracellular progestin.
10.1016/j.talanta.2023.124972$$$Palmitoylation plays an important role in modulating protein trafficking, stability, and activity. The major predicament in protein palmitoylation study is the lack of specific and sensitive tools to visualize protein-specific palmitoylation. Although FRET approach was explored by metabolically labeled palmitic acid and antibody recognized target protein. The trans-membrane strategy suffers from low FRET efficiency due to the donor and acceptor located at different sides of membrane. Herein, we proposed a cis-membrane multi-fluorescence resonance energy transfer (multi-FRET) for amplified visualization of specific palmitoylated proteins through metabolic labeling and targeted recognition. The azido-palmitic acid (azido-PA) was metabolically incorporated into cellular palmitoylated proteins, followed by reacting with dibenzylcylooctyne-modified Cy5 (DBCO-Cy5) through copper-free click chemistry. The protein probe was attached to targeted protein by specific peptide recognition, which initiates a hybridization chain reaction (HCR) amplification process. The cis-membrane labeling method enables effective intramolecular donor-acceptor distance and allow to increase FRET efficiency. Simultaneously, HCR amplification triggered multi-FRET phenomenon with significantly improved FRET efficiency. With the superiority, this strategy has achieved the enhanced FRET imaging of palmitoylated PD-L1 and visualizing the palmitoylation changes of on PD-L1 under drug treatment. Furthermore, the established method successfully amplified visualization of PD-L1 palmitoylation in vivo and mice tumor slice. We envision the approach would provide a useful platform to investigate the effects of palmitoylation on the protein structure and function.
10.1161/ATVBAHA.123.319821$$$BACKGROUND: Evolving evidence suggests that besides signaling pathways, platelet activation involves a complex interplay between metabolic pathways to support thrombus growth. Selective targeting of metabolic checkpoints may inhibit platelet activation and provide a novel antiplatelet strategy. We, therefore, examined global metabolic changes that occur during the transition of human platelets from resting to an activated state to identify metabolites and associated pathways that contribute to platelet activation. METHODS: We performed metabolic profiling of resting and convulxin-stimulated human platelet samples. The differential levels, pathway analysis, and PCA (principal component analysis) were performed using Metaboanalyst. Metascape was used for metabolite network construction. RESULTS: Of the 401 metabolites identified, 202 metabolites were significantly upregulated, and 2 metabolites were downregulated in activated platelets. Of all the metabolites, lipids scored highly and constituted approximately 50% of the identification. During activation, aerobic glycolysis supports energy demand and provides glycolytic intermediates required by metabolic pathways. Consistent with this, an important category of metabolites was carbohydrates, particularly the glycolysis intermediates that were significantly upregulated compared with resting platelets. We found that lysophospholipids such as 1-palmitoyl-GPA (glycero-3-phosphatidic acid), 1-stearoyl-GPS (glycero-3-phosphoserine), 1-palmitoyl-GPI (glycerophosphoinositol), 1-stearoyl-GPI, and 1-oleoyl-GPI were upregulated in activated platelets. We speculated that platelet activation could be linked to 1-carbon metabolism, a set of biochemical pathways that involve the transfer and use of 1-carbon units from amino acids, for cellular processes, including nucleotide and lysophospholipid synthesis. In alignment, based on pathway enrichment and network-based prioritization, the metabolites from amino acid metabolism, including serine, glutamate, and branched-chain amino acid pathway were upregulated in activated platelets, which might be supplemented by the high levels of glycolytic intermediates. CONCLUSIONS: Metabolic analysis of resting and activated platelets revealed that glycolysis and 1-carbon metabolism are necessary to support platelet activation.
10.1016/j.jbc.2023.105609$$$A superfamily of proteins called cysteine transmembrane is widely distributed across eukaryotes. These small proteins are characterized by the presence of a conserved motif at the C-terminal region, rich in cysteines, that has been annotated as a transmembrane domain. Orthologs of these proteins have been involved in resistance to pathogens and metal detoxification. The yeast members of the family are YBR016W, YDL012C, YDR034W-B, and YDR210W. Here, we begin the characterization of these proteins at the molecular level and show that Ybr016w, Ydr034w-b, and Ydr210w are palmitoylated proteins. Protein S-acylation or palmitoylation, is a posttranslational modification that consists of the addition of long-chain fatty acids to cysteine residues. We provide evidence that Ybr016w, Ydr210w, and Ydr034w-b are localized to the plasma membrane and exhibit varying degrees of polarity toward the daughter cell, which is dependent on endocytosis and recycling. We suggest the names CPP1, CPP2, and CPP3 (C terminally palmitoylated protein) for YBR016W, YDR210W, and YDR034W-B, respectively. We show that palmitoylation is responsible for the binding of these proteins to the membrane indicating that the cysteine transmembrane on these proteins is not a transmembrane domain. We propose renaming the C-terminal cysteine-rich domain as cysteine-rich palmitoylated domain. Loss of the palmitoyltransferase Erf2 leads to partial degradation of Ybr016w (Cpp1), whereas in the absence of the palmitoyltransferase Akr1, members of this family are completely degraded. For Cpp1, we show that this degradation occurs via the proteasome in an Rsp5-dependent manner, but is not exclusively due to a lack of Cpp1 palmitoylation.
10.1016/j.foodchem.2023.138066$$$The complex crystal structure of coca butter (CB) is responsible for the unique melting behavior, surface gloss, and mechanical properties of chocolate. While most studies concentrated on the crystalline state of CB, few studied the isotropic liquid state, which has a major impact on the crystallization process and the characteristics of the resulting crystals. In this study, the molecular organizations of the main CB triacylglycerols (TAGs; 1,3-dipalmitoyl-2-oleoylglycerol, palmitoyl-oleoyl-stearoylglycerol, POS, and 1,3-distearoyl-2-oleoylglycerol) were studied. The findings revealed the tunning-fork (Tf) conformation, commonly found in the crystalline state, is the least abundant in the isotropic liquid state of CB and pure TAGs. Notably, POS was found to interact with itself in CB, while its molecules with Tf conformation, although in small amounts in the mixture, tend to pair with each other at lower temperatures. These results highlight the significance of POS in CB crystallization and provide insights for developing CB alternatives.
10.1016/j.jep.2023.117217$$$ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Conventional antidepressants therapy remains unsatisfactory due to the disadvantages of delayed clinical onset of action and side effects. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) with good efficacy and higher safety have received much attention. Angelicae Sinensis Radix (AS), a well-known TCM, has been proved to exhibit the efficacy of antidepression recently. AIM OF THE STUDY: The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential anti-depressant mechanisms of AS based on chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rat model. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, behavioral experiments, molecular biology techniques, and ultra performance liquid chromatography-triple-time of flight mass spectrometer (UPLC-Triple-TOF/MS) were combined to explore the potential antidepressant mechanisms of AS based on CUMS rat model. RESULTS: The results demonstrated that AS could reduce the contents of serum hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hormones in CUMS rats, including corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol (CORT). In addition, AS regulated the percentage of CD4(+) T lymphocytes, the ratio of CD4(+)/CD8(+), and the levels of serum cytokines such as IL-1beta, IL-4, IL-6, and TNF-alpha in CUMS rats. Lipidomics showed that 31 lipids were related to depression and AS could regulate the lipid metabolism alteration induced by CUMS, particularly sphingolipid metabolism. Finally, the key proteins in sphingolipid metabolic pathways in hippocampus of CUMS rats could be back-regulated by AS, including serine palmitoyl transferase (SPTLC2), ceramide synthase (CerS2), sphingomyelinase (SPHK1), and neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase). CONCLUSION: AS could alleviate NEI network disorder and restore the levels of sphingolipid metabolites and key proteins in CUMS rats. The underlying mechanism by which AS relieved depression-like behavior in CUMS rats may be through modulation of NEI and disturbances in sphingolipid metabolism.
10.1016/j.bbamem.2023.184253$$$The effects of polyethylene glycol- (PEG) modified lipids and gangliosides on the Ca(2+) induced interaction between liposomes composed of palmitoyl-oleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine (POPE) and palmitoyl-oleoyl phosphatidylserine (POPS) was investigated at physiological ionic strength. Forster resonance energy transfer (FRET) studies complemented with dynamic light scattering (DLS) and cryo-transmission electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) show that naked liposomes tend to adhere, rupture, and collapse on each other's surfaces upon addition of Ca(2+), eventually resulting in the formation of large multilamellar aggregates and bilayer sheets. Noteworthy, the presence of gangliosides or PEGylated lipids does not prevent the adhesion-rupture process, but leads to the formation of small, long-lived bilayer fragments/disks. PEGylated lipids seem to be more effective than gangliosides at stabilizing these structures. Attractive interactions arising from ion correlation are proposed to be a driving force for the liposome-liposome adhesion and rupture processes. The results suggest that, in contrast with the conclusions drawn from previous solely FRET-based studies, direct liposome-liposome fusion is not the dominating process triggered by Ca(2+) in the systems studied.
10.3389/fvets.2023.1327102$$$INTRODUCTION: Feline idiopathic cystitis is a common, chronic-relapsing disorder of the lower urinary tract. In addition to environmental modification/enrichment, long-term and safe treatment targeting specific pathophysiological changes may be of help. In this context, effective dietary interventions hold clinical promise. Palmitoyl-glucosamine (PGA) and hesperidin (HSP) are safe and authorized feed ingredients for animal nutrition under European regulations. METHODS: The current study aimed to investigate whether a 3:1 mixture of micronized PGA and HSP could represent a novel mechanism-oriented approach to chronic cystitis management. A newly validated rat model of cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced chronic cystitis was used (40 mg/kg, three intraperitoneal injections every 3rd day). Animals were randomized to orally receive either vehicle or PGA-HSP at a low (72 + 24 mg/kg) or high (doubled) dose for 13 days, starting 3 days before the chronic CYP protocol, with mesna (2-mercaptoethane-sulfonate) being used as a reference drug. RESULTS: Higher PGA-HSP dose was effective at relieving chronic visceral pain, as measured by mechanical allodynia test (von Frey test). The severity of cystitis was also significantly improved, as shown by the reduced sonographic thickening of the bladder wall, as well as the decrease in edema, bleeding and bladder to body weight ratio compared to the vehicle treated group. A significant decrease of MPO activity, MDA level and fibrosis at Masson's trichrome staining was also observed in animals administered PGA-HSP in comparison to vehicle treated ones. The CYP-induced increase in bladder mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines was also significantly counteracted by the study mixture. Moreover, CYP-induced bladder mast cell accumulation and releasability were significantly decreased by PGA-HSP (even at the low dose), as determined by metachromatic staining, chymase and tryptase immunostaining as well as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for histamine and 5-hydoxytriptamine. DISCUSSION: PGA-HSP is able to block CYP-induced decrease of tight junction proteins, claudin-1 and occludin, thus preserving the urothelial bladder function. Finally, neuroinflammatory changes were investigated, showing that dietary supplementation with PGA-HSP prevented the activation of neurons and non-neuronal cells (i.e., microglia, astrocytes and mast cells) at the spinal level, and counteracted CYP-induced increase of spinal mRNA encoding for pro-inflammatory cytokines. Altogether, the present findings confirm the uroprotective and pain-relieving effect of PGA-HSP and pave the way to potential and relevant clinical applications of the study supplement in feline idiopathic cystitis.
10.1038/s41594-023-01163-9$$$Autophagy is a lysosome-dependent degradation pathway essential for cellular homeostasis, which decreases with age. However, it is unclear how aging induces autophagy decline. Here we show the role of protein S-palmitoylation in autophagy. We identify the palmitoyl acyltransferase DHHC5 as a regulator of autophagy by mediating the palmitoylation of beclin 1, which in turn promotes the formation of ATG14L-containing class III phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase complex I and its lipid kinase activity by promoting the hydrophobic interactions between beclin 1 and adapter proteins ATG14L and VPS15. In aging brains of human and nonhuman primate, the levels of DHHC5 exhibit a marked decrease in expression. We show that DHHC5 deficiency in neurons leads to reduced cellular protein homeostasis in two established murine models of Alzheimer's disease, which exaggerates neurodegeneration in an autophagy-dependent manner. These findings identify reduction of DHHC5-mediated beclin 1 S-palmitoylation as an underlying mechanism by which aging induces autophagy decline.
10.1016/j.toxlet.2023.11.008$$$Chlorine is a toxic industrial chemical that has been used as a chemical weapon in recent armed conflicts. Confirming human exposure to chlorine has proven challenging, and there is currently no established method for analyzing human biomedical samples to unambiguously verify chlorine exposure. In this study, two chlorine-specific biomarkers: palmitoyl-oleoyl phosphatidylglycerol chlorohydrin (POPG-HOCl) and the lipid derivative oleoyl ethanolamide chlorohydrin (OEA-HOCl) are shown in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples from spontaneously breathing pigs after chlorine exposure. These biomarkers are formed by the chemical reaction of chlorine with unsaturated phospholipids found in the pulmonary surfactant, which is present at the gas-liquid interface within the lung alveoli. Our results strongly suggest that lipid chlorohydrins are promising candidate biomarkers in the development of a verification method for chlorine exposure. The establishment of verified methods capable of confirming the illicit use of toxic industrial chemicals is crucial for upholding the principles of the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) and enforcing the ban on chemical weapons. This study represents the first published dataset in BALF revealing chlorine biomarkers detected in a large animal. Furthermore, these biomarkers are distinct in that they originate from molecular chlorine rather than hypochlorous acid.
10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-22-0681$$$The Hippo pathway and its downstream effectors, the YAP and TAZ transcriptional coactivators, are deregulated in multiple different types of human cancer and are required for cancer cell phenotypes in vitro and in vivo, while largely dispensable for tissue homeostasis in adult mice. YAP/TAZ and their main partner transcription factors, the TEAD1-4 factors, are therefore promising anticancer targets. Because of frequent YAP/TAZ hyperactivation caused by mutations in the Hippo pathway components NF2 and LATS2, mesothelioma is one of the prime cancer types predicted to be responsive to YAP/TAZ-TEAD inhibitor treatment. Mesothelioma is a devastating disease for which currently no effective treatment options exist. Here, we describe a novel covalent YAP/TAZ-TEAD inhibitor, SWTX-143, that binds to the palmitoylation pocket of all four TEAD isoforms. SWTX-143 caused irreversible and specific inhibition of the transcriptional activity of YAP/TAZ-TEAD in Hippo-mutant tumor cell lines. More importantly, YAP/TAZ-TEAD inhibitor treatment caused strong mesothelioma regression in subcutaneous xenograft models with human cells and in an orthotopic mesothelioma mouse model. Finally, SWTX-143 also selectively impaired the growth of NF2-mutant kidney cancer cell lines, suggesting that the sensitivity of mesothelioma models to these YAP/TAZ-TEAD inhibitors can be extended to other tumor types with aberrations in Hippo signaling. In brief, we describe a novel and specific YAP/TAZ-TEAD inhibitor that has potential to treat multiple Hippo-mutant solid tumor types.
10.1111/imm.13773$$$Inflammation is initiated and driven by a mixture of mediators, which modify effects of each other. This study analysed in vitro pro-inflammatory activity of inflammatory cytokines (TNFalpha and IL-1beta) in a combination with a lipid DAMP molecule, oxidized palmitoyl-arachidonoyl-phosphatidylcholine (OxPAPC). The study was performed on endothelial and monocytic cell lines. The cells were treated with different concentrations of TNFalpha or IL-1beta, OxPAPC and their combinations, either in the presence or absence of drugs regulating inflammation. Pro-inflammatory effects of TNFalpha/IL-1beta and OxPAPC were estimated by analysis of chemokines CXCL8, CXCL2 and CXCL3 by ELISA and RT-PCR. Toxicity was determined by analysis of metabolic activity. Statistical significance was estimated by ANOVA and Dunnett's test. OxPAPC was a much weaker chemokine inducer as compared to TNFalpha or IL-1beta. However, OxPAPC and TNFalpha/IL-1beta together induced effects that were significantly stronger than the arithmetical sum of individual effects. This cooperative action of OxPAPC and TNFalpha was reversed by inhibitors of p38 MAPK. We hypothesise that the boosting of TNFalpha and IL-1beta effects by OxPAPC may be more pathologically important than the action of the lipid alone. Inhibitors of p38 MAPK may become a tool for analysis of pathological role of oxidized phospholipids.
10.1016/j.celrep.2024.113679$$$Phospholemman (PLM) regulates the cardiac sodium pump: PLM phosphorylation activates the pump whereas PLM palmitoylation inhibits its activity. Here, we show that the anti-oxidant protein peroxiredoxin 6 (Prdx6) interacts with and depalmitoylates PLM in a glutathione-dependent manner. Glutathione loading cells acutely reduce PLM palmitoylation; glutathione depletion significantly increases PLM palmitoylation. Prdx6 silencing abolishes these effects, suggesting that PLM can be depalmitoylated by reduced Prdx6. In vitro, only recombinant Prdx6, among several peroxiredoxin isoforms tested, removes palmitic acid from recombinant palmitoylated PLM. The broad-spectrum depalmitoylase inhibitor palmostatin B prevents Prdx6-dependent PLM depalmitoylation in cells and in vitro. Our data suggest that Prdx6 is a thioesterase that can depalmitoylate proteins by nucleophilic attack via its reactive thiol, linking PLM palmitoylation and hence sodium pump activity to cellular glutathione status. We show that protein depalmitoylation can occur via a catalytic cysteine in which substrate specificity is determined by a protein-protein interaction.
10.1016/j.jbc.2024.105728$$$Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) catalyzes the pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent decarboxylative condensation of l-serine and palmitoyl-CoA to form 3-ketodihydrosphingosine (KDS). Although SPT was shown to synthesize corresponding products from amino acids other than l-serine, it is still arguable whether SPT catalyzes the reaction with d-serine, which is a question of biological importance. Using high substrate and enzyme concentrations, KDS was detected after the incubation of SPT from Sphingobacterium multivorum with d-serine and palmitoyl-CoA. Furthermore, the KDS comprised equal amounts of 2S and 2R isomers. (1)H-NMR study showed a slow hydrogen-deuterium exchange at Calpha of serine mediated by SPT. We further confirmed that SPT catalyzed the racemization of serine. The rate of the KDS formation from d-serine was comparable to those for the alpha-hydrogen exchange and the racemization reaction. The structure of the d-serine-soaked crystal (1.65 A resolution) showed a distinct electron density of the PLP-l-serine aldimine, interpreted as the racemized product trapped in the active site. The structure of the alpha-methyl-d-serine-soaked crystal (1.70 A resolution) showed the PLP-alpha-methyl-d-serine aldimine, mimicking the d-serine-SPT complex prior to racemization. Based on these enzymological and structural analyses, the synthesis of KDS from d-serine was explained as the result of the slow racemization to l-serine, followed by the reaction with palmitoyl-CoA, and SPT would not catalyze the direct condensation between d-serine and palmitoyl-CoA. It was also shown that the S. multivorum SPT catalyzed the racemization of the product KDS, which would explain the presence of (2R)-KDS in the reaction products.
10.1186/s12917-024-03898-z$$$BACKGROUND: Placenta-specific protein 1 (PLAC1) is a small secreted protein considered to be a molecule with a significant role in the development of the placenta and the establishment of the mother-foetus interface. This study aimed to confirm the presence of bovine PLAC1 and to examine its profile in the placenta and plasma in the first six months of pregnancy. The expression pattern of PLAC1 was analysed by RT-qPCR and Western Blotting. Quantitative evaluation was carried out using ELISA. RESULTS: PLAC1 concentrations in the plasma of pregnant cows were significantly higher (p < 0.05) than those obtained from non-pregnant animals. PLAC1 protein concentrations in the placental tissues of the foetal part were significantly (p < 0.05) higher than in the tissues of the maternal part of the placenta. PLAC1 transcripts were detected in both placental tissue samples and epithelial cell cultures. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the results of the present preliminary study suggest that PLAC1 is involved in the development of bovine placenta. The presence of this protein in the plasma of pregnant animals as early as the first month may make it a potential candidate as a pregnancy marker in cows. Further studies on exact mechanisms of action of PLAC1 in bovine placenta are necessary.
10.1021/acs.jpcb.3c06523$$$Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) is a critical lipid for cellular signaling. The specific phosphorylation of the inositol ring controls protein binding as well as clustering behavior. Two popular models to describe ion-mediated clustering of PIP(2) are Martini3 (M3) and CHARMM36 (C36). Molecular dynamics simulations of PIP(2)-containing bilayers in solutions of potassium chloride, sodium chloride, and calcium chloride, and at two different resolutions are performed to understand the aggregation and the model parameters that drive it. The average M3 clusters of PIP(2) in bilayers of 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-glycero-3-phosphocholine and PIP(2) bilayers in the presence of K(+), Na(+), or Ca(2+) contained 2.2, 2.6, and 6.4 times more PIP(2) than C36 clusters, respectively. Indeed, the Ca(2+)-containing systems often formed a single large aggregate. Reparametrization of the M3 ion-phosphate Lennard-Jones interaction energies to reproduce experimental osmotic pressure of sodium dimethyl phosphate (DMP), K[DMP], and Ca[DMP](2) solutions, the same experimental target as C36, yielded comparably sized PIP(2) clusters for the two models. Furthermore, C36 and the modified M3 predict similar saturation of the phosphate groups with increasing Ca(2+), although the coarse-grained model does not capture the cooperativity between K(+) and Ca(2+). This characterization of the M3 behavior in the presence of monovalent and divalent ions lays a foundation to study cation/protein/PIP(2) clustering.
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.170755$$$Artificial sweeteners (ASs) entered the environments after application and emissions. Recent studies showed that some ASs had obesogenic risks. However, it remained unclear whether such risks are common and how they provoke such effects. Presently, the effects of 8 widely used ASs on lipid accumulation were measured in Caenorhabditis elegans. Potential mechanisms were explored with feeding and locomotion behavior, lipid metabolism and neural regulation. Results showed that acesulfame (ACE), aspartame (ASP), saccharin sodium (SOD), sucralose (SUC) and cyclamate (CYC) stimulated lipid accumulation at mug/L levels, showing obesogenic potentials. Behavior investigation showed that ACE, ASP, SOD, SUC and CYC biased more feeding in the energy intake aspect against the locomotion in the energy consumption one. Neotame (NEO), saccharin (SAC) and alitame (ALT) reduced the lipid accumulation without significant obesogenic potentials in the present study. However, all 8 ASs commonly disturbed enzymes (e.g., acetyl-CoA carboxylase) in lipogenesis and those (e.g., carnitine palmitoyl transferase) in lipolysis. In addition, ASs disturbed PPARgamma (via expressions of nhr-49), TGF-beta/DAF-7 (daf-7) and SREBP (sbp-1) pathways. Moreover, they also interfered neurotransmitters including serotonin (5-HT), dopamine (DA) and acetylcholine (ACh), with influences in Gsalpha (e.g., via expressions of gsalpha-1, ser-7), glutamate (e.g., mgl-1), and cGMP-dependent signaling pathways (e.g., egl-4). In summary, environmental ASs commonly disturbed neural regulation connecting behavior and lipid metabolism, and 5 out of 8 showed clear obesogenic potentials. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPLICATION: Artificial sweeteners (ASs) are become emerging pollutants after wide application and continuous emission. Recent studies showed that some environmental ASs had obesogenic risks. The present study employed Caenorhabditis elegans to explore the influences of 8 commonly used ASs on lipid metabolisms and also the underlying mechanisms. Five out of 8 ASs stimulated lipid accumulation at mug/L levels, and they biased energy intake against energy consumption. The other three ASs reduced the lipid accumulation. ASs commonly disturbed lipogenesis and lipolysis via PPARgamma, TGF-beta and SREBP pathways, and also influenced neurotransmitters with Gsalpha, glutamate and cGMP-dependent signaling pathways.
10.1126/sciadv.adi9284$$$Gasdermin D (GSDMD) serves as a vital mediator of inflammasome-driven pyroptosis. In our study, we have identified NU6300 as a specific GSDMD inhibitor that covalently interacts with cysteine-191 of GSDMD, effectively blocking its cleavage while not affecting earlier steps such as ASC oligomerization and caspase-1 processing in AIM2- and NLRC4-mediated inflammation. On the contrary, NU6300 robustly inhibits these earlier steps in NLRP3 inflammasome, confirming a unique feedback inhibition effect in the NLRP3-GSDMD pathway upon GSDMD targeting. Our study reveals a previously undefined mechanism of GSDMD inhibitors: NU6300 impairs the palmitoylation of both full-length and N-terminal GSDMD, impeding the membrane localization and oligomerization of N-terminal GSDMD. In vivo studies further demonstrate the efficacy of NU6300 in ameliorating dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis and improving survival in lipopolysaccharide-induced sepsis. Overall, these findings highlight the potential of NU6300 as a promising lead compound for the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
10.1007/s43032-023-01319-4$$$Despite its prevalence and the severity of symptoms, little is known about the pathogenesis and etiology of adenomyosis. In our previous study, Scribble localization has been found to be partially translocated to cytoplasm; however, its regulatory mechanism is known. In consideration of the important role of supraphysiologic estrogen production in the endometrium in the development of adenomyosis, we analyzed the effect and mechanism of estrogen on Scribble localization in vivo and in vitro. Firstly, we found Scribble translocation from the basolateral membrane to the cytoplasm was easily to be seen in women and mice with adenomyosis (68% vs 27%, 60% vs 10% separately). After treatment with the S-palmitoylation inhibitor 2-bromopalmitate for 48H, cytoplasmic enrichment of Scribble and the reduced level of palm-Scribble was observed by immunofluorescence, Western blot, and acyl-biotin exchange palmitoylation assay. High estrogen exposure could not only induce partially cytoplasmic translocation of Scribble but also decrease the expression level of palm-Scribble, which can be recovered by estrogen receptor inhibitor ICI182,780. Based on following experiments, we found that estrogen regulated Scribble localization by APT through S-palmitoylation of Scribble protein. At last, IHC was performed to verify the expression of APT1 and APT2 in human clinical tissue specimens and found that they were all increased dramatically. Furthermore, positive correlations were found between APT1 or APT2 and aromatase P450. Therefore, our research may provide a new understanding of the pathogenesis of adenomyosis.
10.1128/mbio.00195-24$$$Sphingofungins are sphinganine analog mycotoxins acting as inhibitors of serine palmitoyl transferases, enzymes responsible for the first step in the sphingolipid biosynthesis. Eukaryotic cells are highly organized with various structures and organelles to facilitate cellular processes and chemical reactions, including the ones occurring as part of the secondary metabolism. We studied how sphingofungin biosynthesis is compartmentalized in the human-pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus, and we observed that it takes place in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), ER-derived vesicles, and the cytosol. This implies that sphingofungin and sphingolipid biosynthesis colocalize to some extent. Automated analysis of confocal microscopy images confirmed the colocalization of the fluorescent proteins. Moreover, we demonstrated that the cluster-associated aminotransferase (SphA) and 3-ketoreductase (SphF) play a bifunctional role, supporting sphingolipid biosynthesis, and thereby antagonizing the toxic effects caused by sphingofungin production.IMPORTANCEA balanced sphingolipid homeostasis is critical for the proper functioning of eukaryotic cells. To this end, sphingolipid inhibitors have therapeutic potential against diseases related to the deregulation of sphingolipid balance. In addition, some of them have significant antifungal activity, suggesting that sphingolipid inhibitors-producing fungi have evolved mechanisms to escape self-poisoning. Here, we propose a novel self-defense mechanism, with cluster-associated genes coding for enzymes that play a dual role, being involved in both sphingofungin and sphingolipid production.
10.3390/ani14040557$$$The aims of this study were to find suitable environmental enrichment (EE) and evaluate the combined effect of two EEs, variable light intensity (VL) lighting program and EH, on mental health and hepatic metabolic regulation in commercial broilers. To find the advantageous EEs for broilers, three different EEs (board, hut, and ramp) were tested in trial 1. EEs were placed and the engagement of birds to EEs, dustbathing behavior, and daily physical activity were observed. Birds treated with huts showed higher engagement than the board- or ramp-treated birds (p < 0.05). The results of dustbathing behavior and daily physical activity indicated that the environmental hut (EH) is the most favorable enrichment for broilers. In the second trial, to test the effect of EHs on mental health and hepatic metabolic conditions, the brain and liver were sampled from the four treatment birds (20 lx_Con, 20 lx_Hut, VL_Con and VL_Hut) on day 42. The lower expression of TPH2 (tryptophan hydroxylase 2) of VL_Hut birds than those of VL_Con and 20 lx_Hut treated birds suggests the combining effect of EHs with the VL lighting program on the central serotonergic homeostasis of broilers. Reduced expressions of TH (tyrosine hydroxylase), GR (glucocorticoid receptor), BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) of VL_Hut treated birds compared to those of VL_Con and 20 lx_Hut birds suggest lower stress, stress susceptibility, and chronic social stress in VL_Hut treated birds. The expression of CPT1A (carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1) increased over three-fold in the liver of VL_Con birds compared to 20 lx_Con birds (p < 0.05). EHs treatment in VL birds (VL_Hut) significantly decreased CPT1A but not in 20 lx birds (20 lx_Hut). The expression of ACCalpha (acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha) was significantly decreased in VL_Con birds compared to 20 lx_Con birds. There was no significant difference in the hepatic FBPase (fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase), GR, and 11beta-HSD1 (11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenease-1) expression between 20 lx_Con and VL_Con birds, but EHs significantly stimulated GR in 20 lx_Hut birds, and stimulated FBPase and 11beta-HSD1 expression in the VL_Hut birds compared to 20 lx_Con birds, suggesting that the VL lighting program reduced fatty acid synthesis and increased fatty acid beta-oxidation in the broilers' liver and VL_Hut improved the hepatic de novo glucose production. Taken together, the results suggest that the stimulated voluntary activity by EHs in the light-enriched broiler house improved mental health and hepatic metabolic function of broilers and may indicate that the improved hepatic metabolic function contributes to efficient nutritional support for broilers.
10.1136/gutjnl-2023-331857$$$
10.3233/JAD-230991$$$Despite decades of intense research, the precise etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unclear. In this hypothesis, we present a new perspective on this matter by identifying carnitine palmitoyl transferase-2 (CPT2) as a central target in AD. CPT2 is an enzyme situated within the inner mitochondrial membrane, playing a crucial role in beta-oxidation of fatty acids. It exhibits high sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide. This sensitivity holds relevance for the etiology of AD, as all major risk factors for the disease share a commonality in producing an excess of hydrogen peroxide right at this very mitochondrial membrane. We will explain the high sensitivity of CPT2 to hydrogen peroxide and elucidate how the resulting inhibition of CPT2 can lead to the characteristic phenotype of AD, thus clarifying its central role in the disease's etiology. This insight holds promise for the development of therapies for AD which can be implemented immediately.
10.1038/s41467-023-44317-5$$$Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is critical for the type I interferon response to pathogen- or self-derived DNA in the cytosol. STING may function as a scaffold to activate TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), but direct cellular evidence remains lacking. Here we show, using single-molecule imaging of STING with enhanced time resolutions down to 5 ms, that STING becomes clustered at the trans-Golgi network (about 20 STING molecules per cluster). The clustering requires STING palmitoylation and the Golgi lipid order defined by cholesterol. Single-molecule imaging of TBK1 reveals that STING clustering enhances the association with TBK1. We thus provide quantitative proof-of-principle for the signaling STING scaffold, reveal the mechanistic role of STING palmitoylation in the STING activation, and resolve the long-standing question of the requirement of STING translocation for triggering the innate immune signaling.
10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2024.108876$$$BACKGROUND: The beneficial role of glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR) in weight control and maintaining glucose levels has led to the development of several multi-agonistic peptide drug candidates, targeting GIPR and glucagon like peptide 1 receptor (GLP1R) and/or the glucagon receptor (GCGR). The in vivo quantification of target occupancy by these drugs would accelerate the development of new drug candidates. The aim of this study was to evaluate a novel peptide (GIP1234), based on previously reported ligand DOTA-GIP-C803, modified with a fatty acid moiety to prolong its blood circulation. It would allow higher target tissue exposure and consequently improved peptide uptake as well as in vivo PET imaging and quantification of GIPR occupancy by novel drugs of interest. METHOD: A 40 amino acid residue peptide (GIP1234) was synthesized based on DOTA-GIP-C803, in turn based on the sequences of endogenous GIP and Exendin-4 with specific amino acid modifications to obtain GIPR selectivity. A palmitoyl fatty acid chain was furthermore added at Lys14 via a glutamic acid linker to prolong its blood circulation time by the interaction with albumin. GIP1234 was conjugated with a DOTA chelator at the C-terminal cysteine residue to achieve (68)Ga radiolabeling. The resulting PET probe, [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 was evaluated for receptor binding specificity and selectivity using HEK293 cells transfected with human GIPR, GLP1R, or GCGR. Blocking experiments with tirzepatide (2 muM) were conducted using huGIPR HEK293 cells to investigate binding specificity. Ex vivo and in vivo organ distribution of [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 was studied in rats and a pig in comparison to [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-C803-GIP. Binding of [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 to albumin was assessed in situ using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). The stability was tested in formulation buffer and rat blood plasma. RESULTS: [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 was synthesized with non-decay corrected radiochemical yield of 88 +/- 3.7 % and radiochemical purity of 97.8 +/- 0.8 %. The molar activity for the radiotracer was 8.1 +/- 1.1 MBq/nmol. [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 was stable and maintained affinity to huGIPR HEK293 cells (dissociation constant (K(d)) = 40 +/- 12.5 nM). The binding of [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 to huGCGR and huGLP1R cells was insignificant. Pre-incubation of huGIPR HEK293 cell sections with tirzepatide resulted in the decrease of [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 binding by close to 90 %. [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 displayed slow blood clearance in pigs with SUV = 3.5 after 60 min. Blood retention of the tracer in rat was 2-fold higher than that of [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-C803-GIP. [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 also demonstrated strong liver uptake in both pig and rat combined with decreased renal excretion. The concentration dependent binding of [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 to albumin was confirmed in situ by PAGE. CONCLUSION: [(68)Ga]Ga-DOTA-GIP1234 demonstrated nanomolar affinity and selectivity for huGIPR in vitro. Addition of a fatty acid moiety prolonged blood circulation time and tissue exposure in both rat and pig in vivo. However, the liver uptake was also increased which may make PET imaging of abdominal tissues such as pancreas challenging. The investigation of the influence of fatty acid moiety on the biological performance of the peptide ligand paved the way for further rational design of GIPR ligand analogues with improved characteristics.
10.1080/07391102.2024.2304683$$$Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are potential alternatives for common antibiotics because of their greater activity and efficiency against a broad range of viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites. In this project, two antimicrobial peptides including magainin 2 and protegrin 1 with alpha-helix and beta-sheet secondary structures were selected to investigate their interactions with different lipid bilayers such as 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC), 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoserine (POPS), 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol (POPG), and 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (POPE), POPC/POPG (7:3), POPC/POPS (7:3), POPG/POPE(1:3), and POPG/POPE(3:1). The obtained structures of the AMPs illustrated that protegrin 1 cannot maintain its secondary structure in the solution phase in contrast to magainin 2. The head groups of the lipid units play a key role in the stability of the lipid bilayers. The head parts of the lipid membranes by increasing the internal H-bond contribute to membrane compactness. The POPG and POPS units inside the POPC/POPG and POPC/POPS membranes increase the order of the POPC units. The cationic residues of the AMPs form remarkable electrostatic interactions with the negatively charged membrane surfaces, which play a key role in the stabilization process of the peptide secondary structures. The Arg residues of protegrin 1 and the Gly1, Lys4, Lys10, Lys11, Lys14, and Glu19 of the magainin 2 have the most important roles in the complexation process. The values of Gibbs binding energies (DeltaG) indicate that the complexation process between AMPs and different bacterial membranes is favorable from the thermodynamic viewpoint and AMPs could form stable complexes with the lipid bilayers. As a result of DeltaG values, protegrin 1 forms a more stable complex with POPG/POPE(3:1), while the alpha-helix has more affinity to the POPG/POPE(1:3) bacterial membranes. Therefore, it can be considered that beta-sheet and alpha-helix AMPs are more effective against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, respectively. The results of this study can provide useful details about the antimicrobial peptide interactions with the bacterial cell, which can be employed for designing new antimicrobial materials with greater efficiency.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
10.1116/6.0003281$$$In-source fragmentation (ISF) poses a significant challenge in secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS). These fragment ions increase the spectral complexity and can lead to incorrect annotation of fragments as intact species. The presence of salt that is ubiquitous in biological samples can influence the fragmentation and ionization of analytes in a significant manner, but their influences on SIMS have not been well characterized. To elucidate the effect of substrates and salt on ISF in SIMS, we have employed experimental SIMS in combination with atomistic simulations of a sphingolipid on a gold surface with various NaCl concentrations as a model system. Our results revealed that a combination of bond dissociation energy and binding energy between N-palmitoyl-sphingomyelin and a gold surface is a good predictor of fragment ion intensities in the absence of salt. However, ion-fragment interactions play a significant role in determining fragment yields in the presence of salt. Additionally, the charge distribution on fragment species may be a major contributor to the varying effects of salt on fragmentation. This study demonstrates that atomistic modeling can help predict ionization potential when salts are present, providing insights for more accurate interpretations of complex biological spectra.
10.1101/2023.04.18.537392$$$Dual Leucine Zipper Kinase (DLK) mediates multiple neuronal stress responses, and its expression levels are constantly suppressed to prevent excessive stress signaling. We found that Wallenda (Wnd), the Drosophila ortholog of DLK, is highly enriched in the axon terminals of Drosophila sensory neurons in vivo and that this subcellular localization is necessary for Highwire-mediated Wnd protein turnover under normal conditions. Our structure-function analysis found that Wnd palmitoylation is essential for its axon terminal localization. Palmitoylation-defective Wnd accumulated in neuronal cell bodies, exhibited dramatically increased protein expression levels, and triggered excessive neuronal stress responses. Defective intracellular transport is implicated in neurodegenerative conditions. Comprehensive dominant-negative Rab protein screening identified Rab11 as an essential factor for Wnd localization in axon terminals. Consequently, Rab11 loss-of-function increased the protein levels of Wnd and induced neuronal stress responses. Inhibiting Wnd activity significantly ameliorated neuronal loss and c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling triggered by Rab11 loss-of-function. Taken together, these suggest that DLK proteins are constantly transported to axon terminals by Rab11 for protein turnover. Our study demonstrates how subcellular protein localization is coupled to protein turnover for neuronal stress signaling. HIGHLIGHTS: Wnd is highly enriched in axon terminals.Wnd protein turnover by Hiw is restricted in the axon terminals.Protein palmitoylation of Wnd and Rab11 activity is essential for Wnd axonal localization. Rab11 mutations and defective Wnd palmitoylation impair Wnd protein turnover leading to increased Wnd protein levels and neuronal loss. Inhibiting Wnd activity mitigates neuronal stress response caused by Rab11 loss-of-function.
10.1038/s41589-019-0344-0$$$Toll-like receptor (TLR)/myeloid differentiation primary response protein (MYD88) signaling aggravates sepsis by impairing neutrophil migration to infection sites. However, the role of intracellular fatty acids in TLR/MYD88 signaling is unclear. Here, inhibition of fatty acid synthase by C75 improved neutrophil chemotaxis and increased the survival of mice with sepsis in cecal ligation puncture and lipopolysaccharide-induced septic shock models. C75 specifically blocked TLR/MYD88 signaling in neutrophils. Treatment with GSK2194069 that targets a different domain of fatty acid synthase, did not block TLR signaling or MYD88 palmitoylation. De novo fatty acid synthesis and CD36-mediated exogenous fatty acid incorporation contributed to MYD88 palmitoylation. The binding of IRAK4 to the MYD88 intermediate domain and downstream signal activation required MYD88 palmitoylation at cysteine 113. MYD88 was palmitoylated by ZDHHC6, and ZDHHC6 knockdown decreased MYD88 palmitoylation and TLR/MYD88 activation upon lipopolysaccharide stimulus. Thus, intracellular saturated fatty acid-dependent palmitoylation of MYD88 by ZDHHC6 is a therapeutic target of sepsis.
10.1016/j.str.2023.11.013$$$The CD4 or CD8 co-receptors' interaction with the protein-tyrosine kinase Lck initiates the tyrosine phosphorylation cascade leading to T cell activation. A critical question is: to what extent are co-receptors and Lck coupled? Our contribution concerns Zn(2+), indispensable for CD4(-) and CD8-Lck formation. We combined biochemical and cellular approaches to show that dynamic fluctuations of free Zn(2+) in physiological ranges influence Zn(CD4)(2) and Zn(CD4)(Lck) species formation and their ratio, although the same Zn(Cys)(2)(Cys)(2) cores. Moreover, we demonstrated that the affinity of Zn(2+) to CD4 and CD4-Lck species differs significantly. Increased intracellular free Zn(2+) concentration in T cells causes higher CD4 partitioning in the plasma membrane. We additionally found that CD4 palmitoylation decreases the specificity of CD4-Lck formation in the reconstituted membrane model. Our findings help elucidate co-receptor-Lck coupling stoichiometry and demonstrate that intracellular free Zn(2+) has a major role in the interplay between CD4 dimers and CD4-Lck assembly.
10.3390/cells13040333$$$The dual leucine zipper kinase (DLK) alias mitogen-activated protein 3 kinase 12 (MAP3K12) has gained much attention in recent years. DLK belongs to the mixed lineage kinases, characterized by homology to serine/threonine and tyrosine kinase, but exerts serine/threonine kinase activity. DLK has been implicated in many diseases, including several neurodegenerative diseases, glaucoma, and diabetes mellitus. As a MAP3K, it is generally assumed that DLK becomes phosphorylated and activated by upstream signals and phosphorylates and activates itself, the downstream serine/threonine MAP2K, and, ultimately, MAPK. In addition, other mechanisms such as protein-protein interactions, proteasomal degradation, dephosphorylation by various phosphatases, palmitoylation, and subcellular localization have been shown to be involved in the regulation of DLK activity or its fine-tuning. In the present review, the diverse mechanisms regulating DLK activity will be summarized to provide better insights into DLK action and, possibly, new targets to modulate DLK function.
10.1021/acs.jcim.3c01873$$$Incomplete structural details of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) fatty acid synthase-I (FAS-I) at near-atomic resolution have limited our understanding of the shuttling mechanism of its mobile acyl carrier protein (ACP). Here, we have performed atomistic molecular dynamics simulation of Mtb FAS-I with a homology-modeled structure of ACP stalled at dehydratase (DH) and identified key residues that mediate anchoring of the recognition helix of ACP near DH. The observed distance between catalytic residues of ACP and DH agrees with that reported for fungal FAS-I. Further, the conformation of the peripheral linker is found to be crucial in stabilizing ACP near DH. Correlated interdomain motion is observed between DH, enoyl reductase, and malonyl/palmitoyl transferase, consistent with prior experimental reports of fungal and Mtb FAS-I.
10.1016/j.chemphyslip.2023.105374$$$Soluble alpha-amylases play an important role in the catabolism of polysaccharides. In this work, we show that the malt alpha -amylase can interact with the lipid membrane and further alter its mechanical properties. Vesicle fluctuation spectroscopy is used for quantitative measurement of the membrane bending rigidity of phosphatidylcholines lipid vesicles from the shape fluctuation based on the whole contour of Giant Unilamellar Vesicles (GUVs). The bending rigidity of the 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine lipid vesicles in water increases significantly with the presence of 0.14 micromolar alpha-amylase (AA) in the exterior solution. It appears that the enzyme present in the external solution interacts with the outer layer of the bilayer membrane, leading to an asymmetry of the solution on either side of the bilayer membrane and altering its elasticity. At AA concentration of 1.5 micromolars and above, changes in the morphology of the GUV membrane are observed. The interaction between AA in the external solution and the external leaflet causes the bilayer membrane to curve spontaneously, leading to the formation of outbuds, giving a positive spontaneous curvature of C(0) </= 0.05 mum(-1) at approximately 1 mg / ml of the AA concentration. We validate and characterize its concentration-dependent role in stabilizing the membrane curvature. Our findings indicate that the involvement of the enzyme, depending on the concentration, can have a considerable effect on the mechanical characteristics of the membrane.
10.1080/15548627.2024.2322493$$$The autophagosomal SNARE STX17 (syntaxin 17) promotes lysosomal fusion and degradation, but its autophagosomal recruitment is incompletely understood. Notably, PtdIns4P is generated on autophagosomes and promotes fusion through an unknown mechanism. Here we show that soluble recombinant STX17 is spontaneously recruited to negatively charged liposomes and adding PtdIns4P to liposomes containing neutral lipids is sufficient for its recruitment. Consistently, STX17 colocalizes with PtdIns4P-positive autophagosomes in cells, and specific inhibition of PtdIns4P synthesis on autophagosomes prevents its loading. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that C-terminal positively charged amino acids establish contact with membrane bilayers containing negatively charged PtdIns4P. Accordingly, Ala substitution of Lys and Arg residues in the C terminus of STX17 abolishes membrane binding and impairs its autophagosomal recruitment. Finally, only wild type but not Ala substituted STX17 expression rescues the autophagosome-lysosome fusion defect of STX17 loss-of-function cells. We thus identify a key step of autophagosome maturation that promotes lysosomal fusion.Abbreviations: Cardiolipin: 1',3'-bis[1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho]-glycerol; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; GST: glutathione S-transferase; GUV: giant unilamellar vesicles; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; PA: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphate; PC/POPC: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-glycero-3-phosphocholine; PG: 1-palmitoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol); PI: L-alpha-phosphatidylinositol; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; POPE/PE: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine; PS: 1-stearoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine; PtdIns(3,5)P(2): 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1"-myo-inositol-3',5'-bisphosphate); PtdIns3P: 1,2- dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-myo-inositol-3'-phosphate); PtdIns4P: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1"-myo-inositol-4'-phosphate); SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; STX17: syntaxin 17.
10.1016/j.taap.2024.116806$$$Cadmium (Cd) is a naturally occurring, toxic environmental metal found in foods. Humans do not have an efficient mechanism for Cd elimination; thus, Cd burden in humans increases with age. Cell and mouse studies show that Cd burden from low environmental levels of exposure impacts lung cell metabolism, proliferation signaling and cell growth as part of disease-promoting profibrotic responses in the lungs. Prior integrative analysis of metabolomics and transcriptomics identified the zDHHC11 transcript as a central functional hub in response to Cd dose. zDHHC11 encodes a protein S-palmitoyltransferase, but no evidence is available for effects of Cd on protein S-palmitoylation. In the present research, we studied palmitoylation changes in response to Cd and found increased protein S-palmitoylation in human lung fibroblasts that was inhibited by 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP), an irreversible palmitoyltransferase inhibitor. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics showed palmitoylation of proteins involved in divalent metal transport and in fibrotic signaling. Mechanistic studies showed that 2-BP inhibited palmitoylation of divalent metal ion transporter ZIP14 and also inhibited cellular Cd uptake. Transcription analyses showed that Cd stimulated transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and beta3 expression within 8 h and lung fibrotic markers alpha-smooth muscle actin, matrix metalloproteinase-2, and collagen 1alpha1 gene expression and that these effects were blocked by 2-BP. Because 2-BP also blocked palmitoylation of proteins controlled by TGFbeta1, these results show that palmitoylation impacts Cd-dependent fibrotic signaling both by enhancing cellular Cd accumulation and by supporting post-translational processing of TGFbeta1-dependent proteins.
10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-23-2664$$$Activation of effector T cells leads to upregulation of PD-1, which can inhibit T cell activity following engagement with its ligand PD-L1. Post-translational modifications (PTMs), including glycosylation, phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and palmitoylation, play a significant role in regulating PD-1 protein stability, localization, and inter-protein interactions. Targeting PTM of PD-1 in T cells has emerged as a potential strategy to overcome PD-1-mediated immunosuppression in cancer and enhance antitumor immunity. The regulatory signaling pathways that induce PTM of PD-1 can be suppressed with small-molecule inhibitors, and monoclonal antibodies can directly target PD-1 PTMs. Preliminary outcomes from exploratory studies suggest that focusing on the PTM of PD-1 has strong therapeutic potential and can enhance the response to anti-PD-1.
10.1016/j.clnu.2023.12.011$$$BACKGROUND & AIMS: 2'-Fucosyllactose (2'-FL), the primary constituent of human milk oligosaccharides, has been identified as a potential regulator of inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease. Despite this recognition, the specific mechanisms through which 2'-FL alleviates ulcerative colitis (UC) remain ambiguous. This study seeks to investigate the potential anti-inflammatory properties of 2'-FL concerning intestinal inflammation and uncover the associated mechanisms. METHODS: C57BL/6J mice were orally administered a daily dose of 500 mg/kg 2'-FL for 11 consecutive days, followed by the induction of colitis using 3 % (wt/vol) dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) for the final 6 days. Subsequently, a comprehensive range of techniques, including an Acyl-biotin exchange assay, fluorescein-isothiocyanate-labeled dextran assay, histopathology, ELISA, quantitative real-time PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence staining, immunohistochemistry staining, Alcian blue-periodic acid schiff staining, TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling, transmission electron microscopy, iTRAQ quantitative proteomics, bioinformatics analysis, and the generation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) knockout mice, were employed to explore the relevant molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: Administration of 2'-FL significantly ameliorated DSS-induced colitis in mice and enhanced the integrity of the intestinal mucosal barrier. 2'-FL downregulated the phosphorylation of STAT3 and inhibited STAT3-related signaling pathways in colon tissues, which, in turn, reduced inflammatory responses. Interestingly, knockdown of STAT3 attenuated the protective effects of 2'-FL, highlighting that 2'-FL-mediated inflammatory attenuation is dependent on STAT3 expression. Additionally, 2'-FL could influence STAT3 activation by modulating the palmitoylation and depalmitoylation of STAT3. CONCLUSIONS: 2'-FL promotes the recovery of the intestinal mucosal barrier and suppresses inflammation in ulcerative colitis by inhibiting the palmitoylation and phosphorylation of STAT3.
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.167616$$$The impact of nanoplastics (NPs) on environmental pollution and aquatic organisms has gradually attracted attention, but there are relatively few reports of the effects of NPs on the lipid metabolism of crustaceans. In this study, we exposed Pacific whiteleg shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) to different concentrations of polystyrene NPs (0, 0.1, 1, 5, and 10 mg/L) for 28 days. We then evaluated the effects of NP exposure on metabolite content, histology, lipid metabolism-related enzyme activity, and gene expression. Our results showed that with increasing NPs concentrations and exposure time, (1) the crude protein and crude fat content decreased and fatty acid composition changed; (2) the tissue structure was destroyed and the number of lipid droplets increased in the hepatopancreas; (3) the activities of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, fatty acid synthase, carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1, pyruvate kinase and low-density lipoprotein content tended to decrease and that of lipase and high-density lipoprotein content first increased and then decreased; the content of triglycerides and total carbohydrate first decreased and then increased; (4) the expression of fatty acid synthesis-related genes (Fas, SREBP, and FAD), fatty acid transport-related genes (FATP, FABP, and ACBP), and fatty acid decomposition-related genes (Ampk and lip1) first increased and then decreased. These results indicate that exposure to NPs can cause physiological disorders of fat metabolism in L.vannamei and that high concentrations of NPs have a negative impact on lipid metabolism. These results of this study provide valuable ecotoxicological data for better interpretation of the mechanism of action of NPs in crustaceans.
10.1016/j.envint.2024.108458$$$As emerging pollutants, antibiotics were widely detected in water bodies and dietary sources. Recently, their obesogenic effects raised serious concerns. So far, it remained unclear whether their obesogenic effects would be influenced by water- and diet-borne exposure routes. In present study, Caenorhabditis elegans, nematodes free-living in air-water interface and feeding on bacteria, were exposed to water- and diet-borne erythromycin antibiotic (ERY). The statuses of the bacterial food, inactivated or alive, were also considered to explore their influences on the effects. Results showed that both water- and diet-borne ERY significantly stimulated body width and triglyceride contents. Moreover, diet-borne ERY's stimulation on the triglyceride levels was greater with alive bacteria than with inactivated bacteria. Biochemical analysis showed that water-borne ERY inhibited the activities of enzymes like adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) in fatty acid beta-oxidation. Meanwhile, diet-borne ERY inhibited the activities of acyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) and carnitine palmitoyl transferase (CPT) in lipolysis, while it stimulated the activities of fatty acid synthase (FAS) in lipogenesis. Gene expression analysis demonstrated that water-borne ERY with alive bacteria significantly upregulated the expressions of daf-2, daf-16 and nhr-49, without significant influences in other settings. Further investigation demonstrated that ERY interfered with bacterial colonization in the intestine and the permeability of the intestinal barrier. Moreover, ERY decreased total long-chained fatty acids (LCFAs) in bacteria and nematodes, while it decreased total short-chained fatty acids (SCFAs) in bacteria but increased them in nematodes. Collectively, the present study demonstrated the differences between water- and diet-borne ERY's obesogenic effects, and highlighted the involvement of insulin and nhr-49 signaling pathways, SCFAs metabolism and also the interaction between intestinal bacteria and the host.
10.1002/ddr.22168$$$Hypoxia has been reported to promote the proliferation and migration of thyroid cancer, while the special mechanism was still unclear. HIF-1alpha/carnitine palmitoyl-transferase 1A (CPT1A) was found to be associated with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) but the biological role of CPT1A in PTC was not explored. The effects of hypoxia and carnitine palmitoyl-transferase 1A (CPT1A) expression on PTC cells were determined by cell counting kit-8 assay, detection of oxidative stress, inflammation response and mitochondrial membrane motential (MMP). Oil Red O staining and the detection of free fatty acids were performed to assess the status of lipid metabolism. Flow cytometric analysis was performed to assess cell apoptosis. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and western blot analysis were applied to investigate the expressions of CPT1A and HIF-1alpha and the molecules involved cell function. The expressions of CPT1A and HIF-1alpha were significantly increased in PTC cells with or without hypoxia treatment. CPT1A overexpression or silencing promoted or inhibited cell viability, and hypoxia further repressed cell viability. In addition, CPT1A overexpression alleviates hypoxia-induced increased oxidative stress, inflammation response and elevated MMP. CPT1A overexpression enhanced palmitic acid-induced decreased cell growth, enhanced the metabolic capacity of free fatty acid and suppressed cell apoptosis. Animal experiments showed that CPT1A overexpression promoted PTC tumor growth, reduced lipid deposition, oxidative stress and inflammation, as well as enhancing cell function indicators. However, CPT1A silencing showed the opposite effects both in vitro and in vivo. Hypoxia induces the high expression of HIF-1alpha/CPT1A, thereby reprogramming the lipid metabolism of PTC cells for adapting the hypoxia environment, meanwhile inhibiting the cell damage and apoptosis caused by oxidative stress.
10.3389/fphar.2023.1342830$$$S-palmitoylation is a reversible posttranslational modification, and the palmitoylation reaction in human-derived cells is mediated by the zDHHC family, which is composed of S-acyltransferase enzymes that possess the DHHC (Asp-His-His-Cys) structural domain. zDHHC proteins form an autoacylation intermediate, which then attaches the fatty acid to cysteine a residue in the target protein. zDHHC proteins sublocalize in different neuronal structures and exert dif-ferential effects on neurons. In humans, many zDHHC proteins are closely related to human neu-rological disor-ders. This review focuses on a variety of neurological disorders, such as AD (Alz-heimer's disease), HD (Huntington's disease), SCZ (schizophrenia), XLID (X-linked intellectual disability), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and glioma. In this paper, we will discuss and summarize the research progress regarding the role of zDHHC proteins in these neu-rological disorders.
10.1111/febs.15728$$$Protein cysteine palmitoylation, or S-palmitoylation, has been known for about 40 years, and thousands of proteins in humans are known to be modified. Because of the large number of proteins modified, the importance and physiological functions of S-palmitoylation are enormous. However, most of the known physiological functions of S-palmitoylation can be broadly classified into two categories, neurological or immunological. This review provides a summary on the function of S-palmitoylation from the immunological perspective. Several important immune signaling pathways are discussed, including STING, NOD1/2, JAK-STAT in cytokine signaling, T-cell receptor signaling, chemotactic GPCR signaling, apoptosis, phagocytosis, and endothelial and epithelial integrity. This review is not meant to be comprehensive, but rather focuses on specific examples to highlight the versatility of palmitoylation in regulating immune signaling, as well as the potential and challenges of targeting palmitoylation to treat immune diseases.
10.1080/15548627.2023.2259732$$$ACSL: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family; DISC: death-inducing signaling complex; DAMPs: danger/damage-associated molecular patterns; Dtgn: dispersed trans-Golgi network; FAR1: fatty acyl-CoA reductase 1; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; LPCAT3: lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MUFAs: monounsaturated fatty acids; MOMP: mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization; MLKL, mixed lineage kinase domain like pseudokinase; oxPAPC: oxidized 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine; OxPCs: oxidized phosphatidylcholines; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; POR: cytochrome p450 oxidoreductase; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; RCD: regulated cell death; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; SPHK1: sphingosine kinase 1; SOAT1: sterol O-acyltransferase 1; SCP2: sterol carrier protein 2; SFAs: saturated fatty acids; SLC47A1: solute carrier family 47 member 1; SCD: stearoyl-CoA desaturase; VLCFA: very long chain fatty acids.
10.1038/s41375-023-02130-5$$$S-palmitoylation is essential for cancer development via regulating protein stability, function and subcellular location, yet the roles S-palmitoylation plays in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) progression remain enigmatic. In this study, we uncovered a novel function of the palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC21 as a tumor suppressor in DLBCL and identified ZDHHC21 as a key regulator of fatty acid synthetase (FASN) S-palmitoylation for the first time. Specifically, ZDHHC21 was downregulated in DLBCL, and its expression level was associated with the clinical prognosis of patients with DLBCL. In vitro and in vivo experiments suggested that ZDHHC21 suppressed DLBCL cell proliferation. Mechanistically, ZDHHC21 interacted with FASN and mediated its palmitoylation at Cys1317, resulting in a decrease in FASN protein stability and fatty acid synthesis, consequently leading to the inhibition of DLBCL cell growth. Of note, an FDA-approved small-molecule compound lanatoside C interacted with ZDHHC21, increased ZDHHC21 protein stability and decreased FASN expression, which contributed to the suppression of DLBCL growth in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrate that ZDHHC21 strongly represses DLBCL cell proliferation by mediating FASN palmitoylation, and suggest that targeting ZDHHC21/FASN axis is a potential therapeutic strategy against DLBCL.
10.1186/s12964-024-01498-w$$$NRAS mutations are most frequently observed in hematological malignancies and are also common in some solid tumors such as melanoma and colon cancer. Despite its pivotal role in oncogenesis, no effective therapies targeting NRAS has been developed. Targeting NRAS localization to the plasma membrane (PM) is a promising strategy for cancer therapy, as its signaling requires PM localization. However, the process governing NRAS translocation from the Golgi apparatus to the PM after lipid modification remains elusive. This study identifies GOLGA7 as a crucial factor controlling NRAS' PM translocation, demonstrating that its depletion blocks NRAS, but not HRAS, KRAS4A and KRAS4B, translocating to PM. GOLGA7 is known to stabilize the palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC9 for NRAS and HRAS palmitoylation, but we found that GOLGA7 depletion does not affect NRAS' palmitoylation level. Further studies show that loss of GOLGA7 disrupts NRAS anterograde trafficking, leading to its cis-Golgi accumulation. Remarkably, depleting GOLGA7 effectively inhibits cell proliferation in multiple NRAS-mutant cancer cell lines and attenuates NRAS(G12D)-induced oncogenic transformation in vivo. These findings elucidate a specific intracellular trafficking route for NRAS under GOLGA7 regulation, highlighting GOLGA7 as a promising therapeutic target for NRAS-driven cancers.
10.1002/jcb.30529$$$Sept8 is a vesicle associated protein and there are two typical transcriptional variants (Sept8-204 and Sept8-201) expressed in mice brain. Interestingly, the coexpression of Sept8-204/Sept5 induces the formation of small sized vesicle-like structure, while that of the Sept8-201/Sept5 produces large puncta. Sept8 is previously shown to be palmitoylated. Here it was further revealed that protein palmitoylation is required for Sept8-204/Sept5 to maintain small sized vesicle-like structure and colocalize with synaptophysin, since either the expression of nonpalmitoylated Sept8-204 mutant (Sept8-204-3CA) or inhibiting Sept8-204 palmitoylation by 2-BP with Sept5 produces large puncta, which barely colocalizes with synaptophysin (SYP). Moreover, it was shown that the dynamic palmitoylation of Sept8-204 is controlled by ZDHHC17 and PPT1, loss of ZDHHC17 decreases Sept8-204 palmitoylation and induces large puncta, while loss of PPT1 increases Sept8-204 palmitoylation and induces small sized vesicle-like structure. Together, these findings suggest that palmitoylation is essential for the maintenance of the small sized vesicle-like structure for Sept8-204/Sept5, and may hint their important roles in synaptic functions.
10.1021/acsnano.3c12678$$$Blockade of programmed cell death-1/programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) immune checkpoints with monoclonal antibodies has shown great promise for cancer treatment, but these antibodies can cause immune-related adverse events in normal organs. Here we report a dual-cell targeted chemo-immunotherapeutic nanoscale coordination polymer (NCP), OxPt/BP, comprising oxaliplatin (OxPt) and 2-bromopalmitic acid (BP), for effective downregulation of PD-L1 expression in both cancer cells and dendritic cells (DCs) by inhibiting palmitoyl acyltransferase DHHC3. OxPt/BP efficiently promotes DC maturation by increasing intracellular oxidative stress and enhancing OxPt-induced immunostimulatory immunogenic cancer cell death. Systemic administration of OxPt/BP reduces the growth of subcutaneous and orthotopic colorectal carcinoma by facilitating the infiltration and activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes together with reducing the population of immunosuppressive regulatory T cells. As a result, OxPt/BP significantly extends mouse survival without causing side effects. This work highlights the potential of NCPs in simultaneously reprogramming cancer cells and DCs for potent cancer treatment.
10.1016/j.redox.2024.103051$$$The significant regulatory role of palmitoylation modification in cancer-related targets has been demonstrated previously. However, the biological functions of Nrf2 in stomach cancer and whether the presence of Nrf2 palmitoylation affects gastric cancer (GC) progression and its treatment have not been reported. Several public datasets were used to look into the possible link between the amount of palmitoylated Nrf2 and the progression and its outcome of GC in patients. The palmitoylated Nrf2 levels in tumoral and peritumoral tissues from GC patients were also evaluated. Both loss-of-function and gain-of-function via transgenic experiments were performed to study the effects of palmitoylated Nrf2 on carcinogenesis and the pharmacological function of 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP) on the suppression of GC progression in vitro and in vitro. We discovered that Nrf2 was palmitoylated in the cytoplasmic domain, and this lipid posttranslational modification causes Nrf2 stabilization by inhibiting ubiquitination, delaying Nrf2 destruction via the proteasome and boosting nuclear translocation. Importantly, we also identify palmitoyltransferase zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 2 (DHHC2) as the primary acetyltransferase required for the palmitoylated Nrf2 and indicate that the suppression of Nrf2 palmitoylation via 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP), or the knockdown of DHHC2, promotes anti-cancer immunity in vitro and in mice model-bearing xenografts. Of note, based on the antineoplastic mechanism of 2-BP, a novel anti-tumor drug delivery system ground 2-BP and oxaliplatin (OXA) dual-loading gold nanorods (GNRs) with tumor cell membrane coating biomimetic nanoparticles (CM@GNRs-BO) was established. In situ photothermal therapy is done using near-infrared (NIR) laser irradiation to help release high-temperature-triggered drugs from the CM@GNRs-BO reservoir when needed. This is done to achieve photothermal/chemical synergistic therapy. Our findings show the influence and linkage of palmitoylated Nrf2 with tumoral and peritumoral tissues in GC patients, the underlying mechanism of palmitoylated Nrf2 in GC progression, and novel possible techniques for addressing Nrf2-associated immune evasion in cancer growth. Furthermore, the bionic nanomedicine developed by us has the characteristics of dual drugs delivery, homologous tumor targeting, and photothermal and chemical synergistic therapy, and is expected to become a potential platform for cancer treatment.
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.170456$$$Cigarette nicotiana alkaloids associated with lung and cardiovascular diseases attack enormous attention. However, the mechanism at the molecular level between nicotiana alkaloids and phospholipid ozonolysis remains elusive. Herein, we investigated the interfacial ozonolysis of a hung droplet containing 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-phosphatidylglycerol (POPG) intervened by nicotiana alkaloids (4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone, NNK; rac-N'-nitrosonornicotine, NNN; nicotine; and (R,S)-N-nitrosoanasabine, NAT) and followed by on-line mass spectrometry analysis. NNK and NNN showed an acceleration on the interfacial ozonolysis, while nicotine and NAT inhibited this chemistry. Such acceleration/inhibition on POPG ozonolysis was positively correlated with nicotiana alkaloid concentrations. The reaction rate constants suggested that the ozonolysis of lung phospholipids exposed to cigarette smoke at the air-water interface occurred rapidly. A possible mechanism of the hydrophilic/oleophilic nature of nicotiana alkaloids mediating the packing density of POPG was proposed. NNK and NNN with a hydrophilic nature inserted into the POPG monolayer loosed the packing, but nicotine and NAT with an oleophilic nature let the POPG closely pack and shield the CC double bonds exposed to ozone (O(3)()). These results gain the knowledge of nicotiana alkaloids mediated phospholipid ozonolysis at the molecule level and provide a method for online interfacial reaction studies associated with elevated indoor pollutants on public health.
10.1055/s-0044-1779508$$$Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT II) deficiency is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder related to lipid metabolism affecting skeletal muscle. The first cases of CPT II deficiency causing myopathy were reported in 1973. In 1983, Werneck et al published the first two Brazilian patients with myopathy due to CPT II deficiency, where the biochemical analysis confirmed deficient CPT activity in the muscle of both cases. Over the past 40 years since the pioneering publication, clinical phenotypes and genetic loci in the CPT2 gene have been described, and pathogenic mechanisms have been better elucidated. Genetic analysis of one of the original cases disclosed compound heterozygous pathogenic variants (p.Ser113Leu/p.Pro50His) in the CPT2 gene. Our report highlights the historical aspects of the first Brazilian publication of the myopathic form of CPT II deficiency and updates the genetic background of this pioneering publication.
10.1038/s41401-024-01248-1$$$CD80 is a transmembrane glycoprotein belonging to the B7 family, which has emerged as a crucial molecule in T cell modulation via the CD28 or CTLA4 axes. CD80-involved regulation of immune balance is a finely tuned process and it is important to elucidate the underlying mechanism for regulating CD80 function. In this study we investigated the post-translational modification of CD80 and its biological relevance. By using a metabolic labeling strategy, we found that CD80 was S-palmitoylated on multiple cysteine residues (Cys261/262/266/271) in both the transmembrane and the cytoplasmic regions. We further identified zDHHC20 as a bona fide palmitoyl-transferase determining the S-palmitoylation level of CD80. We demonstrated that S-palmitoylation protected CD80 protein from ubiquitination degradation, regulating the protein stability, and ensured its accurate plasma membrane localization. The palmitoylation-deficient mutant (4CS) CD80 disrupted these functions, ultimately resulting in the loss of its costimulatory function upon T cell activation. Taken together, our results describe a new post-translational modification of CD80 by S-palmitoylation as a novel mechanism for the regulation of CD80 upon T cell activation.
10.2174/0115680096294098240123104657$$$BACKGROUND: Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most prevalent cancers with poor prognosis in the head and neck. Elucidating molecular mechanisms underlying OSCC occurrence and development is important for the therapy. Dysregulated palmitoylation-related enzymes have been reported in several cancers but OSCC. OBJECTIVE: To explore the role of palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1) in OSCC. METHODS: Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs) and related protein-protein interaction networks between normal oral epithelial and OSCC tissues were screened and constructed via different online databases. Tumor samples from 70 OSCC patients were evaluated for the relationship between PPT1 expression level and patients'clinic characteristics. The role of PPT1 in OSCC proliferation and metastasis was studied by functional experiments, including MTT, colony formation, EdU incorporation and transwell assays. Lentivirus-based constructs were used to manipulate the gene expression. FerroOrange probe and malondialdehyde assay were used to determine ferroptosis. Growth of OSCC cells in vivo was investigated by a xenograft mouse model. RESULTS: A total of 555 DEGs were obtained, and topological analysis revealed that the PPT1 and GPX4 might play critical roles in OSCC. Increased PPT1 expression was found to be correlated with poor prognosis of OSCC patients. PPT1 effectively promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion while inhibiting the ferroptosis of OSCC cells. PPT1 affected the expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). CONCLUSION: PPT1 promoted growth and inhibited ferroptosis of OSCC cells. PPT1 might be a potential target for OSCC therapy.
10.1038/s41392-024-01772-w$$$Despite the successful application of immune checkpoint therapy, no response or recurrence is typical in lung cancer. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been identified as a crucial player in immunotherapy-related resistance. Ferroptosis, a form of cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, is highly regulated by cellular metabolism remolding and has been shown to have synergistic effects when combined with immunotherapy. Metabolic adaption of CSCs drives tumor resistance, yet the mechanisms of their ferroptosis defense in tumor immune evasion remain elusive. Here, through metabolomics, transcriptomics, a lung epithelial-specific Cpt1a-knockout mouse model, and clinical analysis, we demonstrate that CPT1A, a key rate-limiting enzyme of fatty acid oxidation, acts with L-carnitine, derived from tumor-associated macrophages to drive ferroptosis-resistance and CD8(+) T cells inactivation in lung cancer. Mechanistically, CPT1A restrains ubiquitination and degradation of c-Myc, while c-Myc transcriptionally activates CPT1A expression. The CPT1A/c-Myc positive feedback loop further enhances the cellular antioxidant capacity by activating the NRF2/GPX4 system and reduces the amount of phospholipid polyunsaturated fatty acids through ACSL4 downregulating, thereby suppressing ferroptosis in CSCs. Significantly, targeting CPT1A enhances immune checkpoint blockade-induced anti-tumor immunity and tumoral ferroptosis in tumor-bearing mice. The results illustrate the potential of a mechanism-guided therapeutic strategy by targeting a metabolic vulnerability in the ferroptosis of CSCs to improve the efficacy of lung cancer immunotherapy.
10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.149386$$$Radiation exposure poses a significant threat to cellular integrity by inducing DNA damage through the generation of free radicals and reactive oxygen species. Ascorbic acid, particularly its derivative Palmitoyl Ascorbic Acid 2-Glucoside (PA2G), has demonstrated remarkable radioprotective properties. While previous research focused on its pre-irradiation application, this study explores the post-irradiation radiomitigation potential of PA2G. Our findings reveal that post-irradiation treatment with PA2G enhances cell survival and accelerates DNA repair processes, particularly the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair pathway. Notably, PA2G treatment reduces the frequency of lethal chromosomal aberrations and micronuclei formation, indicating its ability to enhance the repair of complex DNA lesions. Furthermore, PA2G is shown to play a role in potentially lethal damage repair (PLDR). These radioprotective effects are specific to NHEJ and ATM pathways, as cells deficient in these mechanisms do not benefit from PA2G treatment. This study highlights PA2G as a versatile radioprotector, both pre- and post-irradiation, with significant potential for applications in radiation therapy and protection, offering new insights into its mechanism of action. Further research is required to elucidate the precise molecular mechanisms underlying PA2G's radiomitigation effects and its potential clinical applications.
10.3390/ijms25021224$$$In nature, the formation of specialized (secondary) metabolites is associated with the late stages of fungal development. Enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites in fungi are located in distinct subcellular compartments including the cytosol, peroxisomes, endosomes, endoplasmic reticulum, different types of vesicles, the plasma membrane and the cell wall space. The enzymes traffic between these subcellular compartments and the secretion through the plasma membrane are still unclear in the biosynthetic processes of most of these metabolites. Recent reports indicate that some of these enzymes initially located in the cytosol are later modified by posttranslational acylation and these modifications may target them to membrane vesicle systems. Many posttranslational modifications play key roles in the enzymatic function of different proteins in the cell. These modifications are very important in the modulation of regulatory proteins, in targeting of proteins, intracellular traffic and metabolites secretion. Particularly interesting are the protein modifications by palmitoylation, prenylation and miristoylation. Palmitoylation is a thiol group-acylation (S-acylation) of proteins by palmitic acid (C16) that is attached to the SH group of a conserved cysteine in proteins. Palmitoylation serves to target acylated proteins to the cytosolic surface of cell membranes, e.g., to the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, whereas the so-called toxisomes are formed in trichothecene biosynthesis. Palmitoylation of the initial enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of melanin serves to target them to endosomes and later to the conidia, whereas other non-palmitoylated laccases are secreted directly by the conventional secretory pathway to the cell wall space where they perform the last step(s) of melanin biosynthesis. Six other enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of endocrosin, gliotoxin and fumitremorgin believed to be cytosolic are also targeted to vesicles, although it is unclear if they are palmitoylated. Bioinformatic analysis suggests that palmitoylation may be frequent in the modification and targeting of polyketide synthetases and non-ribosomal peptide synthetases. The endosomes may integrate other small vesicles with different cargo proteins, forming multivesicular bodies that finally fuse with the plasma membrane during secretion. Another important effect of palmitoylation is that it regulates calcium metabolism by posttranslational modification of the phosphatase calcineurin. Mutants defective in the Akr1 palmitoyl transferase in several fungi are affected in calcium transport and homeostasis, thus impacting on the biosynthesis of calcium-regulated specialized metabolites. The palmitoylation of secondary metabolites biosynthetic enzymes and their temporal distribution respond to the conidiation signaling mechanism. In summary, this posttranslational modification drives the spatial traffic of the biosynthetic enzymes between the subcellular organelles and the plasma membrane. This article reviews the molecular mechanism of palmitoylation and the known fungal palmitoyl transferases. This novel information opens new ways to improve the biosynthesis of the bioactive metabolites and to increase its secretion in fungi.
10.1038/s41388-024-02946-0$$$Flotillin-1 contributes to invasion and metastasis in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and is modified post-translationally through palmitoylation. Palmitoylation, the process of conjugating palmitoyl-CoA to proteins, plays an essential role in protein stability and trafficking. Thus far, there has not been any investigation into the role of flotillin-1 palmitoylation in the context of metastasis in vivo. To address the role of flotillin-1 palmitoylation in metastasis, MDA-MB-231 cells expressing palmitoylation defective flotillin-1 constructs were used as models. Compared to flotillin-1 WT expressing tumors, flotillin-1 palmitoylation defective displayed abrogated tumor progression and lung metastasis in vivo in both spontaneous and experimental models. Further mechanistic investigation led to the identification of zDHHC5 as the main palmitoyl acyltransferase responsible for palmitoylating endogenous flotillin-1. Modulation of flotillin-1 palmitoylation status through mutagenesis, zDHHC5 silencing, and 2-bromopalmitate inhibition all resulted in the proteasomal degradation of flotillin-1 protein. To assess if flotillin-1 palmitoylation can be inhibited for potential clinical relevance, we designed a competitive peptide fused to a cell penetrating peptide sequence, which displayed efficacy in blocking flotillin-1 palmitoylation in vitro without altering palmitoylation of other zDHHC5 substrates, highlighting its specificity. Additionally, TNBC xenograft tumor models expressing a doxycycline inducible flotillin-1 palmitoylation inhibiting peptide displayed attenuated tumor growth and lung metastasis. Collectively, these results reveal a novel palmitoylation dependent mechanism which is essential for the stability of flotillin-1 protein. More specifically, disruption of flotillin-1 palmitoylation through mutagenesis or competitive peptide promoted flotillin-1 protein degradation, subsequently impeding its tumor promoting and metastasis-inducing effects in TNBC tumor models.
10.1111/febs.16972$$$S-acylation is a covalent post-translational modification of proteins with fatty acids, achieved by enzymatic attachment via a labile thioester bond. This modification allows for dynamic control of protein properties and functions in association with cell membranes. This lipid modification regulates a substantial portion of the human proteome and plays an increasingly recognized role throughout the lifespan of affected proteins. Recent technical advancements have propelled the S-acylation field into a 'molecular era', unveiling new insights into its mechanistic intricacies and far-reaching implications. With a striking increase in the number of studies on this modification, new concepts are indeed emerging on the roles of S-acylation in specific cell biology processes and features. After a brief overview of the enzymes involved in S-acylation, this viewpoint focuses on the importance of S-acylation in the homeostasis, function, and coordination of integral membrane proteins. In particular, we put forward the hypotheses that S-acylation is a gatekeeper of membrane protein folding and turnover and a regulator of the formation and dynamics of membrane contact sites.
10.7554/eLife.91656$$$Mammalian ferredoxin 1 and 2 (FDX1/2) belong to an evolutionary conserved family of iron-sulfur cluster containing proteins and act as electron shutters between ferredoxin reductase (FDXR) and numerous proteins involved in critical biological pathways. FDX1 is involved in biogenesis of steroids and bile acids, Vitamin A/D metabolism, and lipoylation of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes. FDX1 has been extensively characterized biochemically but its role in physiology and lipid metabolism has not been explored. In this study, we generated Fdx1-deficient mice and showed that knockout of both alleles of the Fdx1 gene led to embryonic lethality. We also showed that like Fdxr(+/-)+/-, Fdx1(+/-)+/- had a shorter life span and were prone to steatohepatitis. However, unlike Fdxr(+/-)+/-, Fdx1(+/-)+/- were not prone to spontaneous tumors. Additionally, we showed that FDX1 deficiency led to lipid droplet accumulation possibly via the ABCA1-SREBP1/2 pathway. Specifically, untargeted lipidomic analysis showed that FDX1 deficiency led to alterations in several classes of lipids, including cholesterol, triacylglycerides, acylcarnitines, ceramides, phospholipids and lysophospholipids. Taken together, our data indicate that FDX1 is essential for mammalian embryonic development and lipid homeostasis at both cellular and organismal levels.
10.1021/acs.langmuir.3c03030$$$Cyclic Peptide Nanotubes (CPNTs) have emerged as compelling candidates for various applications, particularly as nanochannels within lipid bilayers. In this study, the stability of two CPNTs, namely 8 x [(Cys-Gly-Met-Gly)(2)] and 8 x [(Gly-Leu)(4)], are comprehensively investigated across different lipid bilayers, including 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC), a mixed model membrane (POPE/POPG), and a realistic yeast model membrane. The results demonstrate that both CPNTs maintain their tubular structures in all lipid bilayers, with [(Cys-Gly-Met-Gly)(2)] showing increased stability over an extended period in these lipid membranes. The insertion of CPNTs shows negligible impact on lipid bilayer properties, including area per lipid, volume per lipid, and bilayer thickness. The study demonstrates that the CPNT preserves its two-line water movement pattern within all the lipid membranes, reaffirming their potential as water channels. The MSD curves further reveal that the dynamics of water molecules inside the nanotube are similar for all the bilayer systems with minor differences that arise due to different lipid environments.
10.1002/pro.4835$$$Pulmonary surfactant (PS) is a lipid-protein complex that forms films reducing surface tension at the alveolar air-liquid interface. Surfactant protein C (SP-C) plays a key role in rearranging the lipids at the PS surface layers during breathing. The N-terminal segment of SP-C, a lipopeptide of 35 amino acids, contains two palmitoylated cysteines, which affect the stability and structure of the molecule. The C-terminal region comprises a transmembrane alpha-helix that contains a ALLMG motif, supposedly analogous to a well-studied dimerization motif in glycophorin A. Previous studies have demonstrated the potential interaction between SP-C molecules using approaches such as Bimolecular Complementation assays or computational simulations. In this work, the oligomerization state of SP-C in membrane systems has been studied using fluorescence spectroscopy techniques. We have performed self-quenching and FRET assays to analyze dimerization of native palmitoylated SP-C and a non-palmitoylated recombinant version of SP-C (rSP-C) using fluorescently labeled versions of either protein reconstituted in different lipid systems mimicking pulmonary surfactant environments. Our results reveal that doubly palmitoylated native SP-C remains primarily monomeric. In contrast, non-palmitoylated recombinant SP-C exhibits dimerization, potentiated at high concentrations, especially in membranes with lipid phase separation. Therefore, palmitoylation could play a crucial role in stabilizing the monomeric alpha-helical conformation of SP-C. Depalmitoylation, high protein densities as a consequence of membrane compartmentalization, and other factors may all lead to the formation of protein dimers and higher-order oligomers, which could have functional implications under certain pathological conditions and contribute to membrane transformations associated with surfactant metabolism and alveolar homeostasis.
10.1016/j.jbior.2023.101010$$$Sphingolipids are a diverse class of lipids with essential functions as determinants of membrane physical properties and as intra- and intercellular signaling agents. Disruption of the normal biochemical processes that establish the levels of individual sphingolipids is associated with a variety of human diseases including cancer, cardiovascular disease, metabolic disease, skin diseases, and lysosomal storage diseases. A unique aspect of this metabolic network is that there is a single enzymatic step that initiates the biosynthetic pathway for all sphingolipids. This step is catalyzed by the enzyme serine palmitoyltranserase (SPT). Under most circumstances SPT condenses serine and the 16-carbon acyl-CoA, palmitoyl-CoA to produce the precursor of all sphingolipids. SPT, a four-subunit protein complex, is subject to classic feedback regulation: when cellular sphingolipids are elevated, SPT activity is inhibited. Ceramide is the sphingolipid sensed by this system and it regulates SPT by directly binding to the complex. The ceramide binding site in the SPT complex, and how ceramide binding results in SPT inhibition, has now been determined in vertebrates, plants, and yeast using molecular modeling and cryo-electron microscopy. Here we discuss the similarities and differences revealed by these resolved structures and the surprising result that ceramide binds at almost identical positions in the SPT complex of these divergent organisms, but accomplishes SPT regulation in very different ways.
10.1002/yea.3933$$$Lipid binding domains and protein lipidations are essential features to recruit proteins to intracellular membranes, enabling them to function at specific sites within the cell. Membrane association can also be exploited to answer fundamental and applied research questions, from obtaining insights into the understanding of lipid metabolism to employing them for metabolic engineering to redirect fluxes. This review presents a broad catalog of membrane binding strategies focusing on the plasma membrane of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Both lipid binding domains (pleckstrin homology, discoidin-type C2, kinase associated-1, basic-rich and bacterial phosphoinositide-binding domains) and co- and post-translational lipidations (prenylation, myristoylation and palmitoylation) are introduced as tools to target the plasma membrane. To provide a toolset of membrane targeting modules, respective candidates that facilitate plasma membrane targeting are showcased including their in vitro and in vivo properties. The relevance and versatility of plasma membrane targeting modules are further highlighted by presenting a selected set of use cases.
10.1055/a-2247-9438$$$Background The structure and functions of the extracellular domain of platelet integrin alpha (IIb) beta (3) (platelet membrane glycoprotein: GPIIb-IIIa) change substantially upon platelet activation. However, the stability of the integrated model of extracellular/transmembrane/intracellular domains of integrin alpha (IIb) beta (3) with the inactive state of the extracellular domain has not been clarified. Methods The integrated model of integrin alpha (IIb) beta (3) was developed by combining the extracellular domain adopted from the crystal structure and the transmembrane and intracellular domain obtained by Nuclear Magnetic Resonace (NMR). The transmembrane domain was settled into the phosphatidylcholine (2-oleoyl-1-palmitoyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphocholine (POPC)) lipid bilayer model. The position coordinates and velocity vectors of all atoms and water molecules around them were calculated by molecular dynamic (MD) simulation with the use of Chemistry at Harvard Macromolecular Mechanics force field in every 2 x 10 (-15) seconds. Results The root-mean-square deviations (RMSDs) of atoms constructing the integrated alpha (IIb) beta (3) model apparently stabilized at approximately 23 A after 200 ns of calculation. However, minor fluctuation persisted during the entire calculation period of 650 ns. The RMSDs of both alpha (IIb) and beta (3) showed similar trends before 200 ns. The RMSD of beta (3) apparently stabilized approximately at 15 A at 400 ns with persisting minor fluctuation afterward, while the structural fluctuation in alpha (IIb) persisted throughout the 650 ns calculation period. Conclusion In conclusion, the integrated model of the intracellular, transmembrane, and extracellular domain of integrin alpha (IIb) beta (3) suggested persisting fluctuation even after convergence of MD calculation.
10.1042/BST20230818$$$Calcium (Ca2+) regulates a multitude of cellular processes during fertilization and throughout adult life by acting as an intracellular messenger to control effector functions in excitable and non-excitable cells. Changes in intracellular Ca2+ levels are driven by the co-ordinated action of Ca2+ channels, pumps, and exchangers, and the resulting signals are shaped and decoded by Ca2+-binding proteins to drive rapid and long-term cellular processes ranging from neurotransmission and cardiac contraction to gene transcription and cell death. S-acylation, a lipid post-translational modification, is emerging as a critical regulator of several important Ca2+-handling proteins. S-acylation is a reversible and dynamic process involving the attachment of long-chain fatty acids (most commonly palmitate) to cysteine residues of target proteins by a family of 23 proteins acyltransferases (zDHHC, or PATs). S-acylation modifies the conformation of proteins and their interactions with membrane lipids, thereby impacting intra- and intermolecular interactions, protein stability, and subcellular localization. Disruptions of S-acylation can alter Ca2+ signalling and have been implicated in the development of pathologies such as heart disease, neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer. Here, we review the recent literature on the S-acylation of Ca2+ transport proteins of organelles and of the plasma membrane and highlight the molecular basis and functional consequence of their S-acylation as well as the therapeutic potential of targeting this regulation for diseases caused by alterations in cellular Ca2+ fluxes.
10.1038/s41467-023-43650-z$$$Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) recognizes self-DNA and plays intricate roles in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, the molecular mechanism regulating the endosomal TLR9 response is incompletely understood. Here, we report that palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1) regulates systemic autoimmunity by removing S-palmitoylation from TLR9 in lysosomes. PPT1 promotes the secretion of IFNalpha by plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) and TNF by macrophages. Genetic deficiency in or chemical inhibition of PPT1 reduces anti-nuclear antibody levels and attenuates nephritis in B6.Sle1yaa mice. In healthy volunteers and patients with SLE, the PPT1 inhibitor, HDSF, reduces IFNalpha production ex vivo. Mechanistically, biochemical and mass spectrometry analyses demonstrated that TLR9 is S-palmitoylated at C258 and C265. Moreover, the protein acyltransferase, DHHC3, palmitoylates TLR9 in the Golgi, and regulates TLR9 trafficking to endosomes. Subsequent depalmitoylation by PPT1 facilitates the release of TLR9 from UNC93B1. Our results reveal a posttranslational modification cycle that controls TLR9 response and autoimmunity.
10.1189/jlb.2A0316-156RR$$$Effective activation of macrophages through phagocytic Fcgamma receptors (FcgammaR) has been shown to require selenoprotein K (Selk). We set out to determine whether the FcgammaR-mediated uptake process itself also requires Selk and potential underlying mechanisms. Macrophages from Selk knockout (KO) mice were less efficient compared with wild-type (WT) controls in engulfing IgG-coated fluorescent beads. Using LC-MS/MS to screen for Selk-binding partners involved in FcgammaR-mediated phagocytosis, we identified Arf-GAP with SH3 domain, ANK repeat, and PH domain-containing protein 2 (ASAP2). Coimmunoprecipitation assays confirmed interactions between Selk and ASAP2. Selk was required for ASAP2 to be cleaved by calpain-2 within the Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain of ASAP2. BAR domains promote membrane association, which was consistent with our data showing that Selk deficiency led to retention of ASAP2 within the phagocytic cup. Because Selk was recently identified as a cofactor for the palmitoylation of certain proteins, we investigated whether ASAP2 was palmitoylated and whether this was related to its cleavage by calpain-2. Acyl/biotin exchange assays and MALDI-TOF analysis showed that cysteine-86 in ASAP2 was palmitoylated in WT, but to a much lesser extent in KO, mouse macrophages. Inhibitors of either palmitoylation or calpain-2 cleavage and rescue experiments with different versions of Selk demonstrated that Selk-dependent palmitoylation of ASAP2 leads to cleavage by calpain-2 within the BAR domain, which releases this protein from the maturing phagocytic cup. Overall, these findings identify ASAP2 as a new target of Selk-dependent palmitoylation and reveal a new mechanism regulating the efficiency of FcgammaR-mediated phagocytosis.
10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.123.21748$$$BACKGROUND: The chronic hypoxia of high-altitude residence poses challenges for tissue oxygen supply and metabolism. Exposure to high altitude during pregnancy increases the incidence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and fetal growth restriction and alters placental metabolism. High-altitude ancestry protects against altitude-associated fetal growth restriction, indicating hypoxia tolerance that is genetic in nature. Yet, not all babies are protected and placental pathologies associated with fetal growth restriction occur in some Andean highlanders. METHODS: We examined placental metabolic function in 79 Andeans (18-45 years; 39 preeclamptic and 40 normotensive) living in La Paz, Bolivia (3600-4100 m) delivered by unlabored Cesarean section. Using a selection-nominated approach, we examined links between putatively adaptive genetic variation and phenotypes related to oxygen delivery or placental metabolism. RESULTS: Mitochondrial oxidative capacity was associated with fetal oxygen delivery in normotensive but not preeclamptic placenta and was also suppressed in term preeclamptic pregnancy. Maternal haplotypes in or within 200 kb of selection-nominated genes were associated with lower placental mitochondrial respiratory capacity (PTPRD [protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor-delta]), lower maternal plasma erythropoietin (CPT2 [carnitine palmitoyl transferase 2], proopiomelanocortin, and DNMT3 [DNA methyltransferase 3]), and lower VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) in umbilical venous plasma (TBX5 [T-box transcription factor 5]). A fetal haplotype within 200 kb of CPT2 was associated with increased placental mitochondrial complex II capacity, placental nitrotyrosine, and GLUT4 (glucose transporter type 4) protein expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal novel associations between putatively adaptive gene regions and phenotypes linked to oxygen delivery and placental metabolic function in highland Andeans, suggesting that such effects may be of genetic origin. Our findings also demonstrate maladaptive metabolic mechanisms in the context of preeclampsia, including dysregulation of placental oxygen consumption.
10.1038/s41587-023-02030-0$$$The 23 human zinc finger Asp-His-His-Cys motif-containing (ZDHHC) S-acyltransferases catalyze long-chain S-acylation at cysteine residues across an extensive network of hundreds of proteins important for normal physiology or dysregulated in disease. Here we present a technology to directly map the protein substrates of a specific ZDHHC at the whole-proteome level, in intact cells. Structure-guided engineering of paired ZDHHC 'hole' mutants and 'bumped' chemically tagged fatty acid probes enabled probe transfer to specific protein substrates with excellent selectivity over wild-type ZDHHCs. Chemical-genetic systems were exemplified for five human ZDHHCs (3, 7, 11, 15 and 20) and applied to generate de novo ZDHHC substrate profiles, identifying >300 substrates and S-acylation sites for new functionally diverse proteins across multiple cell lines. We expect that this platform will elucidate S-acylation biology for a wide range of models and organisms.
10.1016/j.chemphyslip.2024.105376$$$Membrane sterols contribute to the function of biomembranes by regulating the physical properties of the lipid bilayers. Cholesterol, a typical mammalian sterol, is biosynthesized by oxidation of lanosterol. From a molecular evolutionary perspective, lanosterol is considered the ancestral molecule of cholesterol. Here, we studied whether cholesterol is superior to lanosterol in regulating the physical properties of the lipid bilayer in terms of the structural effect on model biomembranes composed of a phospholipid. For comparison, oxysterol, which is formed by oxidation of cholesterol, was also studied. The phospholipid used was 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC), which is abundantly found in mammalian biomembranes, and 7beta-hydroxycholesterol, which is highly cytotoxic, was used as the oxysterol. The apparent molecular volume was calculated from the mass density determined by the flotation method using H(2)O and D(2)O, and the bilayer thickness was determined by reconstructing the electron density distribution from X-ray diffraction data of the POPC/sterol mixtures at a sterol concentration of 30 mol%. The apparent occupied area at the bilayer surface was calculated from the above two structural data. The cholesterol system had the thickest bilayer thickness and the smallest occupied area of the three sterols studied here. This indicates that the POPC/cholesterol bilayer has a better barrier property than the other two systems. Compared to cholesterol, the effects of lanosterol and 7beta-hydroxycholesterol on lipid bilayer properties can be interpreted as suboptimal for the function of mammalian biomembranes.
10.1016/j.redox.2024.103064$$$Amyloid-beta (Abeta) is a key factor in the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Selenium (Se) compounds show promise in AD treatment. Here, we revealed that selenoprotein K (SELENOK), a selenoprotein involved in immune regulation and potentially related to AD pathology, plays a critical role in microglial immune response, migration, and phagocytosis. In vivo and in vitro studies corroborated that SELENOK deficiency inhibits microglial Abeta phagocytosis, exacerbating cognitive deficits in 5xFAD mice, which are reversed by SELENOK overexpression. Mechanistically, SELENOK is involved in CD36 palmitoylation through DHHC6, regulating CD36 localization to microglial plasma membranes and thus impacting Abeta phagocytosis. CD36 palmitoylation was reduced in the brains of patients and mice with AD. Se supplementation promoted SELENOK expression and CD36 palmitoylation, enhancing microglial Abeta phagocytosis and mitigating AD progression. We have identified the regulatory mechanisms from Se-dependent selenoproteins to Abeta pathology, providing novel insights into potential therapeutic strategies involving Se and selenoproteins.
10.1111/cns.14362$$$AIMS: The basolateral amygdala (BLA) plays an integral role in anxiety disorders (such as post traumatic stress disorder) stem from dysregulated fear memory. The excitability of glutamatergic neurons in the BLA correlates with fear memory, and the afterhyperpolarization current (I(AHP) ) mediated by small-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel subtype 2 (SK2) dominates the excitability of glutamatergicneurons. This study aimed to explore the effect of MPP2 interacts with SK2 in the excitability of glutamatergic neurons in the BLA and the extinction of conditioned fear in mice. METHODS: Fear memory was analyzed via freezing percentage. Western blotting and fluorescence quantitative PCR were used to determine the expression of protein and mRNA respectively. Electrophysiology was employed to measure the excitability of glutamatergic neurons and I(AHP) . RESULTS: Fear conditioning decreased the levels of synaptic SK2 channels in the BLA, which were restored following fear extinction. Notably, reduced expression of synaptic SK2 channels in the BLA during fear conditioning was caused by the increased activity of protein kinase A (PKA), while increased levels of synaptic SK2 channels in the BLA during fear extinction were mediated by interactions with membrane-palmitoylated protein 2 (MPP2). CONCLUSIONS: Our results revealed that MPP2 interacts with the SK2 channels and rescues the excitability of glutamatergic neurons by increasing the expression of synaptic SK2 channels in the BLA to promote the normalization of anxiety disorders and provide a new direction for the treatment.
10.1007/s13346-023-01511-8$$$The aim of this study was to design surfactants based on histidine (His) for hydrophobic ion-pairing and evaluate their safety and efficacy. Lauryl, palmitoyl and oleyl alcohol, as well as 2-hexyl-1-decanol were converted into surfactants with histidine as head-group via esterification. The synthesized His-surfactants were characterized regarding pK(a), critical micellar concentration (CMC), biodegradability, toxicity on Caco-2 cells, and ability to provide endosomal escape. Furthermore, the suitability of these agents to be employed as counterions in hydrophobic ion pairing was evaluated. Chemical structures were confirmed by (1)H-NMR, FT-IR, and MS. The synthesized surfactants showed pK(a) values ranging from 4.9 to 6.0 and CMC values in the range of 0.3 to 7.0 mM. Their biodegradability was proven by enzymatic cleavage within 24 h. Below the CMC, His-surfactants did not show cytotoxic effects on Caco-2 cells (cell viability > 80%). All His-surfactants showed the ability to provide endosomal escape in a pH-dependent manner in the range of 5.2 to 6.8. Complexes formed between His-surfactants and heparin or plasmid DNA (pDNA) via hydrophobic ion pairing showed at least 100-fold higher lipophilicity than the correspondent model drugs. According to these results, His-surfactants might be a promising safe tool for delivering hydrophilic macromolecular drugs and nucleic acids.
10.1186/s12933-023-02116-8$$$BACKGROUND: Higher levels of palmitoyl sphingomyelin (PSM, synonymous with sphingomyelin 16:0) are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in people with diabetes. Whether circulating PSM levels can practically predict the long-term risk of CVD and all-cause death remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether circulating PSM is a real predictor of CVD death in Chinese adults with or without diabetes. METHODS: A total of 286 and 219 individuals with and without diabetes, respectively, from the original Da Qing Diabetes Study were enrolled. Blood samples collected in 2009 were used as a baseline to assess circulating PSM levels. The outcomes of CVD and all-cause death were followed up from 2009 to 2020, and 178 participants died, including 87 deaths due to CVD. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to estimate HRs and their 95% CIs for the outcomes. RESULTS: Fractional polynomial regression analysis showed a linear association between baseline circulating PSM concentration (log-2 transformed) and the risk of all-cause and CVD death (p < 0.001), but not non-CVD death (p > 0.05), in all participants after adjustment for confounders. When the participants were stratified by PSM-tertile, the highest tertile, regardless of diabetes, had a higher incidence of CVD death (41.5 vs. 14.7 and 22.2 vs. 2.9 per 1000 person-years in patients with and without diabetes, respectively, all log-rank p < 0.01). Individuals with diabetes in the highest tertile group had a higher risk of CVD death than those in the lowest tertile (HR = 2.73; 95%CI, 1.20-6.22). CONCLUSIONS: Elevated PSM levels are significantly associated with a higher 10-year risk of CVD death, but not non-CVD death, in Chinese adults with diabetes. These findings suggest that PSM is a potentially useful long-term predictor of CVD death in individuals with diabetes.
10.1186/s12964-024-01529-6$$$BACKGROUND: Small extracellular vesicles (EVs), exemplified by exosomes, mediate intercellular communication by transporting proteins, mRNAs, and miRNAs. Post-translational modifications are involved in controlling small EV secretion process. However, whether palmitoylation regulates small EV secretion, remains largely unexplored. METHODS: Vacuole Membrane Protein 1 (VMP1) was testified to be S-palmitoylated by Palmitoylation assays. VMP1 mutant plasmids were constructed to screen out the exact palmitoylation sites. Small EVs were isolated, identified and compared between wild-type VMP1 or mutant VMP1 transfected cells. Electron microscope and immunofluorescence were used to detect multivesicular body (MVB) number and morphology change when VMP1 was mutated. Immunoprecipitation and Mass spectrum were adopted to identify the protein that interacted with palmitoylated VMP1, while knock down experiment was used to explore the function of targeted protein ALIX. Taking human Sertoli cells (SCs) and human spermatogonial stem cell like cells (SSCLCs) as a model of intercellular communication, SSCLC maintenance was detected by flow cytometry and qPCR at 12 days of differentiation. In vivo, mouse model was established by intraperitoneal injection with palmitoylation inhibitor, 2-bromopalmitate (2BP) for 3 months. RESULTS: VMP1 was identified to be palmitoylated at cysteine 263,278 by ZDHHC3. Specifically, palmitoylation of VMP1 regulated its subcellular location and enhanced the amount of small EV secretion. Mutation of VMP1 palmitoylation sites interfered with the morphology and biogenesis of MVBs through suppressing intraluminal vesicle formation. Furthermore, inhibition of VMP1 palmitoylation impeded small EV secretion by affecting the interaction of VMP1 with ALIX, an accessory protein of the ESCRT machinery. Taking SCs and SSCLCs as a model of intercellular communication, we discovered VMP1 palmitoylation in SCs was vital to the growth status of SSCLCs in a co-culture system. Inhibition of VMP1 palmitoylation caused low self-maintenance, increased apoptosis, and decreased proliferation rate of SSCLCs. In vivo, intraperitoneal injection of 2BP inhibited VMP1 palmitoylation and exosomal marker expression in mouse testes, which were closely associated with the level of spermatogenic cell apoptosis and proliferation. CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed a novel mechanism for small EV secretion regulated by VMP1 palmitoylation in Sertoli cells, and demonstrated its pivotal role in intercellular communication and SSC niche.
10.1124/jpet.123.002021$$$Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most frequently diagnosed primary CNS tumor in adults. Despite the standard of care therapy which includes surgical resection, temozolomide chemotherapy, radiation and the newly added tumor treating fields, median survival remains only ~20 months. Unfortunately, GBM has a ~100% recurrence rate, but after recurrence there are no FDA-approved therapies to limit tumor growth and enhance patient survival, as these tumors are resistant to TMZ. Recently, our laboratory reported that lucanthone slows GBM by inhibiting autophagic flux through lysosome targeting and decreases the number of Olig2+ glioma stem-like cells (GSC) in vitro and in vivo. We now additionally report that lucanthone efficiently abates stemness in patient-derived GSC and reduces tumor microtube formation in GSC, an emerging hallmark of treatment resistance in GBM. In glioma tumors derived from cells with acquired resistance to TMZ, lucanthone retains the ability to perturb tumor growth, inhibits autophagy by targeting lysosomes and reduces Olig2 positivity. We also find that lucanthone may act as an inhibitor of protein palmitoyl thioesterase 1 (PPT1). Our results suggest that lucanthone may function as a potential treatment option for GBM tumors that are not amenable to TMZ treatment. Significance Statement We report that the anti-schistosome agent lucanthone impedes tumor growth in a preclinical model of temozolomide-resistant glioblastoma, and reduces the numbers of stem-like glioma cells. It acts as an autophagy inhibitor and its mechanism of action may be via inhibition of palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1. As there are no defined therapies approved for recurrent, TMZ-resistant tumor, lucanthone could emerge as a treatment for glioblastoma tumors that may not be amenable to TMZ both in the newly diagnosed and recurrent settings.
10.1021/acs.jmedchem.3c01363$$$Hedgehog signaling is involved in embryonic development and cancer growth. Functional activity of secreted Hedgehog signaling proteins is dependent on N-terminal palmitoylation, making the palmitoyl transferase Hedgehog acyltransferase (HHAT), a potential drug target and a series of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridines have been identified as HHAT inhibitors. Based on structural data, we designed and synthesized 37 new analogues which we profiled alongside 13 previously reported analogues in enzymatic and cellular assays. Our results show that a central amide linkage, a secondary amine, and (R)-configuration at the 4-position of the core are three key factors for inhibitory potency. Several potent analogues with low- or sub-muM IC(50) against purified HHAT also inhibit Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) palmitoylation in cells and suppress the SHH signaling pathway. This work identifies IMP-1575 as the most potent cell-active chemical probe for HHAT function, alongside an inactive control enantiomer, providing tool compounds for validation of HHAT as a target in cellular assays.
10.1111/ene.16138$$$INTRODUCTION: Fatty-acid oxidation disorders (FAODs) are recessive genetic diseases. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We report here clinical and paraclinical data from a retrospective study of 44 adults with muscular FAODs from six French reference centers for neuromuscular or metabolic diseases. RESULTS: The study cohort consisted of 44 adult patients: 14 with carnitine palmitoyl transferase 2 deficiency (32%), nine with multiple acyl-CoA deficiency (20%), 13 with very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (30%), three with long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (7%), and five with short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (11%). Disease onset occurred during childhood in the majority of patients (59%), with a mean age at onset of 15 years (range = 0.5-35) and a mean of 12.6 years (range = 0-58) from disease onset to diagnosis. The principal symptoms were acute muscle manifestations (rhabdomyolysis, exercise intolerance, myalgia), sometimes associated with permanent muscle weakness. Episodes of rhabdomyolysis were frequent (84%), with a mean creatinine kinase level of 68,958 U/L (range = 660-300,000). General metabolic complications were observed in 58% of patients, respiratory manifestations in 18% of cases, and cardiological manifestations in 9% of cases. Fasting acylcarnitine profile was used to orient genetic explorations in 65% of cases. After a mean follow-up of 10 years, 33% of patients were asymptomatic and 56% continued to display symptoms after exercise. The frequency of rhabdomyolysis decreased after diagnosis in 64% of cases. CONCLUSION: A standardized register would complete this cohort description of muscular forms of FAODs with exhaustive data, making it possible to assess the efficacy of therapeutic protocols in real-life conditions and during the long-term follow-up of patients.
10.1016/j.bpc.2023.107124$$$We employed all-atom MD simulations to investigate the impact of palmitoylation on the PAG transmembrane peptide within various lipid environments, including the less explored boundary region separating lipid-ordered (Lo) and lipid-disordered (Ld) membrane phases. We found that palmitoylation of the peptide reduces its impact on membrane thickness, particularly within the Lo and boundary environments. Despite their hydrophobic nature, the palmitoyl chains on the peptide did not significantly affect the hydration of the surrounding membrane. Interestingly, the boundary membrane environment was found to be especially compatible with the palmitoylated peptide, suggesting its potential for accumulation in phase boundaries. Our findings highlight the importance of understanding how palmitoylation-modified peptides behave within membranes, with crucial implications for cell signaling and membrane organization. This knowledge may also inform the optimization of lipid membrane-based drug delivery systems, by improving our understanding of how drugs and excipients can be most effectively arranged within these carriers.
10.1242/jcs.261916$$$Tricellular junctions (TCJs) seal epithelial cell-vertices and are essential for tissue integrity and physiology, but how TCJs are assembled and maintained is poorly understood. In Drosophila, the transmembrane proteins Anakonda (Aka), Gliotactin (Gli), and M6 constitute occluding TCJs. Aka and M6 localize in an interdependent manner to vertices and act jointly to localize Gli, but how these proteins interact to assemble TCJs was not known. Here, we show that the proteolipid protein M6 physically interacts with Aka and with itself and that M6 is palmitoylated on conserved juxta-membrane cysteines. This modification promotes vertex localization of M6 and binding to Aka, but not to itself, and becomes essential when TCJ protein levels are reduced. Abolishing M6 palmitoylation leads to delayed localization of M6 and Aka but does not affect the rate of TCJ growth or mobility of M6 or Aka. Our findings suggest that palmitoylation-dependent recruitment of Aka by M6 promotes initiation of TCJ assembly, while subsequent TCJ growth relies on different mechanisms independent of M6 palmitoylation.
10.1038/s41598-024-52638-8$$$Breast cancer is the most common diagnosed cancer, the HER2-positive subtype account for 15% of all breast cancer. HER2-targeted therapy is the mainstay treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer. Cuproptosis is a novel form of programmed cell death, and is caused by mitochondrial lipoylation and destabilization of iron-sulfur proteins triggered by copper, which was considered as a key player in various biological processes. However, the roles of cuproptosis-related genes in HER2-positive breast cancer remain largely unknown. In the present study, we constructed a prognostic prediction model of HER2-positive breast cancer patients using TCGA database. Dysregulated genes for cells resistant to HER2-targeted therapy were analyzed in the GEO dataset. KEGG pathway, GO enrichment and GSEA was performed respectively. The immune landscape of DLAT was analyzed by CIBERSORT algorithm and TIDE algorithm. HER2-positive breast cancer patients with high CRGs risk score showed shorter OS. DLAT was downregulated and correlated with better survival of HER2-positive breast cancer patients (HR = 3.30, p = 0.022). High expressed DLAT was associated with resistant to HER2-targeted therapy. Knocking down DLAT with siRNA increased sensitivity of breast cancer to trastuzumab. KEGG pathway and GO enrichment of DEGs indicated that DLAT participates in various pathways correlated with organelle fission, chromosome segregation, nuclear division, hormone-mediated signaling pathway, regulation of intracellular estrogen receptor signaling pathway, condensed chromosome and PPAR signaling pathway. There was a negative correlation between TIDE and DLAT expression (r = - 0.292, p < 0.001), which means high DLAT expression is an indicator of sensitivity to immunotherapy. In conclusion, our study constructed a four CRGs signature prognostic prediction model and identified DLAT as an independent prognostic factor and associated with resistant to HER2-targeted therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer patients.
10.1016/j.celrep.2024.113720$$$LMNA gene mutation can cause muscular dystrophy, and post-translational modification plays a critical role in regulating its function. Here, we identify that lamin A is palmitoylated at cysteine 522, 588, and 591 residues, which are reversely catalyzed by palmitoyltransferase zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 5 (ZDHHC5) and depalmitoylase alpha/beta hydrolase domain 7 (ABHD7). Furthermore, the metabolite lactate promotes palmitoylation of lamin A by inhibiting the interaction between it and ABHD7. Interestingly, low-level palmitoylation of lamin A promotes, whereas high-level palmitoylation of lamin A inhibits, murine myoblast differentiation. Together, these observations suggest that ABHD7-mediated depalmitoylation of lamin A controls myoblast differentiation.
10.1016/j.bbamem.2023.184238$$$Catestatin (CST), a versatile 21 amino acid long cationic peptide, is stored in chromaffin granules and exocytosed upon fusion with the plasma membrane. CST, produced by chromaffin cells and neutrophils, is derived from the processing of chromogranin A and induced in the skin after injury. It involves catecholamine inhibition, blood pressure control, inflammation, and innate immunity. It is thought that calcium influx is triggered by CST permeating within neutrophils. It is unknown whether CST can disturb the immediate environment enough to penetrate the cell membrane passively. We used molecular dynamics simulations to examine the behaviour of human CST in its wild-type state (CST WT) and one of its naturally occurring variants, CST-364 S, which has a high allelic frequency in the human population. Both peptides were incorporated into the model eukaryotic cell membrane known as the POPC (1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine) lipid bilayer. The molecular modelling and simulations results show that CST WT and CST-364 S have different propensities for membrane disruption. It was shown that CST-364 S has higher membrane permeability than CST WT. In addition, we have used fluorescence anisotropy and leakage assay to study the interaction of peptides with PC membranes. Both peptides interacted with POPC and DOPC membranes, while CST-364 S penetrated the membrane more deeply via disorganizing the membrane interface, which supports our previous findings. According to this study, there is a good possibility that the peptides will passively permeate the cell membrane, distort, and pass through it.
10.1097/LVT.0000000000000207$$$
10.1152/ajpcell.00542.2023$$$More than half of the global population is obese or overweight, especially in Western countries, and this excess adiposity disrupts normal physiology to cause chronic diseases. Diabetes, an adiposity-associated epidemic disease, affects >500 million people, and cases are projected to exceed 1 billion before 2050. Lipid excess can impact physiology through the posttranslational modification of proteins, including the reversible process of S-palmitoylation. Dynamic palmitoylation cycling requires the S-acylation of proteins by acyltransferases and the depalmitoylation of these proteins mediated in part by acyl-protein thioesterases (APTs) such as APT1. Emerging evidence points to tissue-specific roles for the depalmitoylase APT1 in maintaining homeostasis in the vasculature, pancreatic islets, and liver. These recent findings raise the possibility that APT1 substrates can be therapeutically targeted to treat the complications of metabolic diseases.
10.3390/cancers16030647$$$Copper, an essential element for various biological processes, demands precise regulation to avert detrimental health effects and potential cell toxicity. This paper explores the mechanisms of copper-induced cell death, known as cuproptosis, and its potential health and disease implications, including cancer therapy. Copper ionophores, such as elesclomol and disulfiram, increase intracellular copper levels. This elevation triggers oxidative stress and subsequent cell death, offering potential implications in cancer therapy. Additionally, copper ionophores disrupt mitochondrial respiration and protein lipoylation, further contributing to copper toxicity and cell death. Potential targets and biomarkers are identified, as copper can be targeted to those proteins to trigger cuproptosis. The role of copper in different cancers is discussed to understand targeted cancer therapies using copper nanomaterials, copper ionophores, and copper chelators. Furthermore, the role of copper is explored through diseases such as Wilson and Menkes disease to understand the physiological mechanisms of copper. Exploring cuproptosis presents an opportunity to improve treatments for copper-related disorders and various cancers, with the potential to bring significant advancements to modern medicine.
10.1021/acsinfecdis.3c00673$$$Gram-negative bacteria possess a complex structural cell envelope that constitutes a barrier for antimicrobial peptides that neutralize the microbes by disrupting their cell membranes. Computational and experimental approaches were used to study a model outer membrane interaction with an antimicrobial peptide, melittin. The investigated membrane included di[3-deoxy-d-manno-octulosonyl]-lipid A (KLA) in the outer leaflet and 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (POPE) in the inner leaflet. Molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the positively charged helical C-terminus of melittin anchors rapidly into the hydrophilic headgroup region of KLA, while the flexible N-terminus makes contacts with the phosphate groups of KLA, supporting melittin penetration into the boundary between the hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions of the lipids. Electrochemical techniques confirmed the binding of melittin to the model membrane. To probe the peptide conformation and orientation during interaction with the membrane, polarization modulation infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy was used. The measurements revealed conformational changes in the peptide, accompanied by reorientation and translocation of the peptide at the membrane surface. The study suggests that melittin insertion into the outer membrane affects its permeability and capacitance but does not disturb the membrane's bilayer structure, indicating a distinct mechanism of the peptide action on the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria.
10.1016/j.exer.2024.109852$$$Oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases. Retinal degeneration causes irreversible death of photoreceptor cells, ultimately leading to vision loss. Under oxidative stress, the synthesis of bioactive sphingolipid ceramide increases, triggering apoptosis in photoreceptor cells and leading to their death. This study investigates the effect of L-Cycloserine, a small molecule inhibitor of ceramide biosynthesis, on sphingolipid metabolism and the protection of photoreceptor-derived 661 W cells from oxidative stress. The results demonstrate that treatment with L-Cycloserine, an inhibitor of Serine palmitoyl transferase (SPT), markedly decreases bioactive ceramide and associated sphingolipids in 661 W cells. A nontoxic dose of L-Cycloserine can provide substantial protection of 661 W cells against H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress by reversing the increase in ceramide level observed under oxidative stress conditions. Analysis of various antioxidant, apoptotic, and sphingolipid pathway genes and proteins also confirms the ability of L-Cycloserine to modulate these pathways. Our findings elucidate the generation of sphingolipid mediators of cell death in retinal cells under oxidative stress and the potential of L-Cycloserine as a therapeutic candidate for targeting ceramide-induced degenerative diseases by inhibiting SPT. The promising therapeutic prospect identified in our findings lays the groundwork for further validation in in-vivo and preclinical models of retinal degeneration.
10.1021/acs.langmuir.3c02952$$$Deviations from the normal physicochemical and functional properties of pulmonary surfactants are associated with the incidence of lung injury and other respiratory disorders. This study aims to evaluate the alteration of the 2D molecular organization and morphology of pulmonary surfactant model membranes by the electronic cigarette additives alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) and alpha-tocopherol acetate (vitamin E acetate), which have been associated with lung injury, termed e-cigarette or vaping-use-associated lung injury (EVALI). The model membranes used contained a 7:3 molar ratio of DPPC (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine) and POPG (1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol) to which alpha-tocopherol and alpha-tocopherol acetate were added to form mixtures of up to 20 mol % additive. The properties of the neat tocopherol additives and DPPC/POPG (7:3) mixtures with increasing molar proportions of additive were evaluated by surface pressure-area isotherms, excess area calculations, Brewster angle microscopy, grazing incidence X-ray diffraction, X-ray reflectivity, and atomic force microscopy. The addition of either additive alters the essential phase balance of the model pulmonary surfactant membrane by generating a greater proportion of the fluid phase. Despite this net fluidization, both tocopherol additives have space-filling effects on the liquid-expanded and condensed phases, yielding negative excess areas in the liquid-expanded phase and reduced tilt angles in the condensed phase. Both tocopherol additives alter the stability of the fluid phase, pushing the eventual collapse of this phase to higher surface pressures than the model membrane in the absence of an additive.
10.1016/j.jbc.2023.105563$$$Intermediary metabolites and flux through various pathways have emerged as key determinants of post-translational modifications. Independently, dynamic fluctuations in their concentrations are known to drive cellular energetics in a bi-directional manner. Notably, intracellular fatty acid pools that drastically change during fed and fasted states act as precursors for both ATP production and fatty acylation of proteins. Protein fatty acylation is well regarded for its role in regulating structure and functions of diverse proteins; however, the effect of intracellular concentrations of fatty acids on protein modification is less understood. In this regard, we unequivocally demonstrate that metabolic contexts, viz. fed and fasted states, dictate the extent of global fatty acylation. Moreover, we show that presence or absence of glucose that influences cellular and mitochondrial uptake/utilization of fatty acids and affects palmitoylation and oleoylation, which is consistent with their intracellular abundance in fed and fasted states. Employing complementary approaches including click-chemistry, lipidomics, and imaging, we show the top-down control of cellular metabolic state. Importantly, our results establish the crucial role of mitochondria and retrograde signaling components like SIRT4, AMPK, and mTOR in orchestrating protein fatty acylation at a whole cell level. Specifically, pharmacogenetic perturbations that alter either mitochondrial functions and/or retrograde signaling affect protein fatty acylation. Besides illustrating the cross-talk between carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in mediating bulk post-translational modification, our findings also highlight the involvement of mitochondrial energetics.
10.1111/apha.14086$$$AIM: Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3) Rs) are intracellular Ca(2+) -release channels with crucial roles in cell function. Current IP(3) R inhibitors suffer from off-target effects and poor selectivity towards the three distinct IP(3) R subtypes. We developed a novel peptide inhibitor of IP(3) Rs and determined its effect on connexin-43 (Cx43) hemichannels, which are co-activated by IP(3) R stimulation. METHODS: IP3RPEP6 was developed by in silico molecular docking studies and characterized by on-nucleus patch-clamp experiments of IP(3) R2 channels and carbachol-induced IP(3) -mediated Ca(2+) responses in IP(3) R1, 2 or 3 expressing cells, triple IP(3) R KO cells and astrocytes. Cx43 hemichannels were studied by patch-clamp and ATP-release approaches, and by inhibition with Gap19 peptide. IP3RPEP6 interactions with IP(3) Rs were verified by co-immunoprecipitation and affinity pull-down assays. RESULTS: IP3RPEP6 concentration-dependently reduced the open probability of IP(3) R2 channels and competitively inhibited IP(3) Rs in an IC(50) order of IP(3) R2 (~3.9 muM) < IP(3) R3 (~4.3 muM) < IP(3) R1 (~9.0 muM), without affecting Cx43 hemichannels or ryanodine receptors. IP3RPEP6 co-immunoprecipitated with IP(3) R2 but not with IP(3) R1; interaction with IP(3) R3 varied between cell types. The IC(50) of IP3RPEP6 inhibition of carbachol-induced Ca(2+) responses decreased with increasing cellular Cx43 expression. Moreover, Gap19-inhibition of Cx43 hemichannels significantly reduced the amplitude of the IP(3) -Ca(2+) responses and strongly increased the EC(50) of these responses. Finally, we identified palmitoyl-8G-IP3RPEP6 as a membrane-permeable IP3RPEP6 version allowing extracellular application of the IP(3) R-inhibiting peptide. CONCLUSION: IP3RPEP6 inhibits IP(3) R2/R3 at concentrations that have limited effects on IP(3) R1. IP(3) R activation triggers hemichannel opening, which strongly affects the amplitude and concentration-dependence of IP(3) -triggered Ca(2+) responses.
10.7150/ijbs.84399$$$A key player in mitochondrial respiration, p32, often referred to as C1QBP, is mostly found in the mitochondrial matrix. Previously, we showed that p32 interacts with DLAT in the mitochondria. Here, we found that p32 expression was reduced in ccRCC and suppressed progression and metastasis in ccRCC animal models. We observed that increasing p32 expression led to an increase in oxidative phosphorylation by interacting with DLAT, thus, regulating the activation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHc). Mechanistically, reduced p32 expression, in concert with DLAT, suppresses PDHc activity and the TCA cycle. Furthermore, our research discovered that p32 has a direct binding affinity for copper, facilitating the copper-induced oligomerization of lipo-DLAT specifically in ccRCC cells. This finding reveals an innovative function of the p32/DLAT/copper complex in regulating glycometabolism and the TCA cycle in ccRCC. Importantly, our research provides important new understandings of the underlying molecular processes causing the abnormal mitochondrial metabolism linked to this cancer.
10.1016/j.jlr.2023.100480$$$Diacylglycerol kinase-epsilon (DGKepsilon) catalyzes phosphorylation of diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid with a unique specificity toward 1-stearoyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycerol, which is a backbone of phosphatidylinositol (PI). Owing to this specificity, DGKepsilon is involved in the PI cycle maintaining the cellular level of phosphorylated PI derivatives of signaling activity and was also found crucial for lipid metabolism. DGKepsilon dysfunction is linked with the development of atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) and possibly other human diseases. Despite the DGKepsilon significance, data on its regulation by cotranslational and/or post-translational modifications are scarce. Here, we report that DGKepsilon is S-palmitoylated at Cys38/40 (mouse/human DGKepsilon) located in the cytoplasmic end of its N-terminal putative transmembrane fragment. The S-palmitoylation of DGKepsilon was revealed by metabolic labeling of cells with a palmitic acid analogue followed by click chemistry and with acyl-biotin and acyl-polyethylene glycol exchange assays. The S-acyltransferases zDHHC7 (zinc finger DHHC domain containing) and zDHHC17 and the zDHHC6/16 tandem were found to catalyze DGKepsilon S-palmitoylation, which also increased the DGKepsilon abundance. Mouse DGKepsilon-Myc ectopically expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells localized to the endoplasmic reticulum where zDHHC6/16 reside and in small amounts also to the Golgi apparatus where zDHHC7 and zDHHC17 are present. The Cys38Ala substitution upregulated, whereas hyperpalmitoylation of wild-type DGKepsilon reduced the kinase activity, indicating an inhibitory effect of the Cys38 S-palmitoylation. In addition, the substitution of neighboring Pro31 with Ala also diminished the activity of DGKepsilon. Taken together, our data indicate that S-palmitoylation can fine-tune DGKepsilon activity in distinct cellular compartments, possibly by affecting the distance between the kinase and its substrate in a membrane.
10.1266/ggs.23-00297$$$The freezing-thawing (F/T) method for fusing giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs) can provide substrates, enzymes and membrane material simultaneously and repetitively, and is useful for constructing a recursive model of an artificial cell. However, enzymatic efficiency after F/T is reduced due to rupture of the GUVs and leakage of the inner solution during F/T. Previously, liposomes composed of 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPC) and a negatively charged lipid, such as 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol) (POPG), showed lower rupture and leakage rates during F/T. In this study, we investigated the effect of POPG on the supply of components required for T7 RNA polymerase reactions via F/T by flow cytometry analysis. We found that the addition of POPG to liposome preparations reduced the efficiency of RNA synthesis. In addition, DNA was concentrated during F/T and RNA synthesis occurred after F/T in liposomes composed of POPC and POPG. Our results provide new insights for more efficient supply of substrates and enzymes by the F/T method, thereby increasing the utility of the F/T method for the construction of recursive bioreactors.
10.1016/bs.apha.2023.10.003$$$The availability of monoamine neurotransmitters in the brain is under the control of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin transporters expressed on the plasma membrane of monoaminergic neurons. By regulating transmitter levels these proteins mediate crucial functions including cognition, attention, and reward, and dysregulation of their activity is linked to mood and psychiatric disorders of these systems. Amphetamine-based transporter substrates stimulate non-exocytotic transmitter efflux that induces psychomotor stimulation, addiction, altered mood, hallucinations, and psychosis, thus constituting a major component of drug neurochemical and behavioral outcomes. Efflux is under the control of transporter post-translational modifications that synergize with other regulatory events, and this review will summarize our knowledge of these processes and their role in drug mechanisms.
10.3390/pharmaceutics16020219$$$In this study, the amphiphilic N-palmitoyl-KTTKS peptide was integrated in the bilayer of egg-derived phosphatidylcholine (PC) vesicles using two different preparation methods, namely thin-film evaporation (TLE) and reverse-phase evaporation (REV). Both the REV and TLE methods allowed for the formation of homogeneous liposome dispersions (PdI < 0.20) with mean hydrodynamic diameters of <100 nm and <200 nm, respectively, a net negative surface charge and a percentage of structured phospholipids higher than 90%. The inclusion of the amphiphilic N-palmitoyl-KTTKS peptide within phospholipid-based vesicles could improve peptide stability and skin delivery. Therefore, the obtained liposomes were evaluated via experiments assessing the synthesis of collagen and the ECM in 3T3-NIH fibroblasts. The obtained results showed that, when delivered with PC liposomes, pal-KTTKS stimulated collagen production more than free pentapeptide and 1 mM ascorbic acid, used as a positive control.
10.1016/j.bmc.2024.117617$$$CD44, a ubiquitously expressed transmembrane receptor, plays a crucial role in cell growth, migration, and tumor progression. Dimerization of CD44 is a key event in signal transduction and has emerged as a potential target for anti-tumor therapies. Palmitoylation, a posttranslational modification, disrupts CD44 dimerization and promotes CD44 accumulation in ordered membrane domains. However, the effects of palmitoylation on the structure and dynamics of CD44 at atomic resolution remain poorly understood. Here, we present a semisynthetic approach combining solid-phase peptide synthesis, recombinant expression, and native chemical ligation to investigate the impact of palmitoylation on the cytoplasmic domain (residues 669-742) of CD44 (CD44ct) by NMR spectroscopy. A segmentally isotope-labeled and site-specifically palmitoylated CD44 variant enabled NMR studies, which revealed chemical shift perturbations and indicated local and long-range conformational changes induced by palmitoylation. The long-range effects suggest altered intramolecular interactions and potential modulation of membrane association patterns. Semisynthetic, palmitoylated CD44ct serves as the basis for studying CD44 clustering, conformational changes, and localization within lipid rafts, and could be used to investigate its role as a tumor suppressor and to explore its therapeutic potential.
10.3390/biomedicines12010163$$$Lung surfactant is a mixture of lipids and proteins and is essential for air breathing in mammals. The hydrophobic surfactant proteins B and C (SP-B and SP-C) assist in reducing surface tension in the lung alveoli by organizing the surfactant lipids. SP-B deficiency is life-threatening, and a lack of SP-C can lead to progressive interstitial lung disease. B-YL (41 amino acids) is a highly surface-active, sulfur-free peptide mimic of SP-B (79 amino acids) in which the four cysteine residues are replaced by tyrosine. Mammalian SP-C (35 amino acids) contains two cysteine-linked palmitoyl groups at positions 5 and 6 in the N-terminal region that override the beta-sheet propensities of the native sequence. Canine SP-C (34 amino acids) is exceptional because it has only one palmitoylated cysteine residue at position 4 and a phenylalanine at position 5. We developed canine SP-C constructs in which the palmitoylated cysteine residue at position 4 is replaced by phenylalanine (SP-Cff) or serine (SP-Csf) and a glutamic acid-lysine ion-lock was placed at sequence positions 20-24 of the hydrophobic helical domain to enhance its alpha helical propensity. AI modeling, molecular dynamics, circular dichroism spectroscopy, Fourier Transform InfraRed spectroscopy, and electron spin resonance studies showed that the secondary structure of canine SP-Cff ion-lock peptide was like that of native SP-C, suggesting that substitution of phenylalanine for cysteine has no apparent effect on the secondary structure of the peptide. Captive bubble surfactometry demonstrated higher surface activity for canine SP-Cff ion-lock peptide in combination with B-YL in surfactant lipids than with canine SP-Csf ion-lock peptide. These studies demonstrate the potential of canine SP-Cff ion-lock peptide to enhance the functionality of the SP-B peptide mimic B-YL in synthetic surfactant lipids.
10.1016/j.devcel.2023.12.005$$$Different types of cells uptake fatty acids in response to different stimuli or physiological conditions; however, little is known about context-specific regulation of fatty acid uptake. Here, we show that muscle injury induces fatty acid uptake in muscle stem cells (MuSCs) to promote their proliferation and muscle regeneration. In humans and mice, fatty acids are mobilized after muscle injury. Through CD36, fatty acids function as both fuels and growth signals to promote MuSC proliferation. Mechanistically, injury triggers the translocation of CD36 in MuSCs, which relies on dynamic palmitoylation of STX11. Palmitoylation facilitates the formation of STX11/SNAP23/VAMP4 SANRE complex, which stimulates the fusion of CD36- and STX11-containing vesicles. Restricting fatty acid supply, blocking fatty acid uptake, or inhibiting STX11 palmitoylation attenuates muscle regeneration in mice. Our studies have identified a critical role of fatty acids in muscle regeneration and shed light on context-specific regulation of fatty acid sensing and uptake.
10.1016/j.clnu.2023.12.008$$$BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hyperglycemia is associated with lipid disorders in patients with diabetes. Ceramides are metabolites involved in sphingolipid metabolism that accumulate during lipid disorders and exert deleterious effects on glucose and lipid metabolism. However, the effects of ceramide on glucagon-mediated hepatic gluconeogenesis remain largely unknown. This study was designed to investigate the impact of ceramides on gluconeogenesis in the context of the hepatic glucagon response, with the aim of finding new pharmacological interventions for hyperglycemia in diabetes. METHODS: Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to quantify ceramide content in the serum of patients with diabetes. Primary hepatocytes were isolated from male C57BL/6J mice to study the effects of ceramide on hepatic glucose production. Immunofluorescence staining was performed to view cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)- regulated transcription co-activator 2 (CRTC2) nuclear translocation in hepatocytes. Serine palmitoyl-transferase, long chain base subunit 2 (Sptlc2) knockdown mice were generated using an adeno-associated virus containing shRNA, and hepatic glucose production was assessed glucagon tolerance and pyruvate tolerance tests in mice fed a normal chow diet and high-fat diet. RESULTS: Increased ceramide levels were observed in the serum of patients newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. De novo ceramide synthesis was activated in mice with metabolic disorders. Ceramide enhanced hepatic glucose production in primary hepatocytes. In contrast, genetic silencing of Sptlc2 prevented this process. Mechanistically, ceramides de-phosphorylate CRTC2 (Ser 171) and facilitate its translocation into the nucleus for CREB activation, thereby augmenting the hepatic glucagon response. Hepatic Sptlc2 silencing blocked ceramide generation in the liver and thus restrained the hepatic glucagon response in mice fed a normal chow diet and high-fat diet. CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that ceramide serves as an intracellular messenger that augments hepatic glucose production by regulating CRTC2/CREB activity in the context of the hepatic glucagon response, suggesting that CRTC2 phosphorylation might be a potential node for pharmacological interventions to restrain the hyperglycemic response during fasting in diabetes.
10.1016/j.canlet.2024.216758$$$Immune checkpoint molecules play a pivotal role in the initiation, regulation, and termination of immune responses. Tumor cells exploit these checkpoints to dampen immune cell function, facilitating immune evasion. Clinical interventions target this mechanism by obstructing the binding of immune checkpoints to their ligands, thereby restoring the anti-tumor capabilities of immune cells. Notably, therapies centered on immune checkpoint inhibitors, particularly PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4 blocking antibodies, have demonstrated significant clinical promise. However, a considerable portion of patients still encounter suboptimal efficacy and develop resistance. Recent years have witnessed an exponential surge in preclinical and clinical trials investigating novel immune checkpoint molecules such as TIM3, LAG3, TIGIT, NKG2D, and CD47, along with their respective ligands. The processes governing immune checkpoint molecules, from their synthesis to transmembrane deployment, interaction with ligands, and eventual degradation, are intricately tied to post-translational modifications. These modifications encompass glycosylation, phosphorylation, ubiquitination, neddylation, SUMOylation, palmitoylation, and ectodomain shedding. This discussion proceeds to provide a concise overview of the structural characteristics of several novel immune checkpoints and their ligands. Additionally, it outlines the regulatory mechanisms governed by post-translational modifications, offering insights into their potential clinical applications in immune checkpoint blockade.
10.1080/15548627.2023.2247747$$$ACTB: actin beta; AREG: amphiregulin; ATP6V0A4: ATPase, H(+) transporting, lysosomal V0 subunit A4; Baf A1: bafilomycin A(1); BSA: bovine serum albumin; CLDN1: claudin 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; E(2): 17beta-estradiol; ESR: estrogen receptor; GATA2: GATA binding protein 2; GLA: galactosidase, alpha; GO: gene ontology; HBEGF: heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor; IGF1R: insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor; Ihh: Indian hedgehog; ISH: in situ hybridization; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LCM: laser capture microdissection; Le: lumenal epithelium; LGMN: legumain; LIF: leukemia inhibitory factor; LIFR: LIF receptor alpha; MSX1: msh homeobox 1; MUC1: mucin 1, transmembrane; P(4): progesterone; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCA: principal component analysis; PPT1: palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1; PGR: progesterone receptor; PSP: pseudopregnancy; PTGS2/COX2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; qPCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; SP: pregnancy; TFEB: transcription factor EB.
10.1016/j.xcrm.2023.101357$$$Programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) blockade has become a mainstay of cancer immunotherapy. Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis with small molecules is an attractive approach to enhance antitumor immunity. Here, we identified a natural marine product, benzosceptrin C (BC), that enhances the cytotoxicity of T cells to cancer cells by reducing the abundance of PD-L1. Furthermore, BC exerts its antitumor effect in mice bearing MC38 tumors by activating tumor-infiltrating T cell immunity. Mechanistic studies suggest that BC can prevent palmitoylation of PD-L1 by inhibiting DHHC3 enzymatic activity. Subsequently, PD-L1 is transferred from the membrane to the cytoplasm and cannot return to the membrane via recycling endosomes, triggering lysosome-mediated degradation of PD-L1. Moreover, the combination of BC and anti-CTLA4 effectively enhances antitumor T cell immunity. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized antitumor mechanism of BC and represent an alternative immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy.
10.1016/j.arcped.2023.09.010$$$The cases were a pair of siblings with a carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT2) deficiency detected by tandem mass spectrometry. Their C16 and C18:1 levels were both within the normal range, while C0 was low, and the (C16+C18:1)/C2 ratio was high. Following genetic testing, a novel CPT2 gene mutation was identified in both patients. The male patient had a normal growth rate during 5 years of follow-up after treatment. By contrast, the female patient did not take l-carnitine supplements and died after an infectious disease-associated illness when she was 1 year old. These data emphasize the need to raise awareness about CPT2 deficiency so as to correctly diagnose and accurately manage the disease.
10.1111/bph.16318$$$BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Protein palmitoylation is involved in learning and memory, and in emotional disorders. Yet, the underlying mechanisms in these processes remain unclear. Herein, we describe that A-kinase anchoring protein 150 (AKAP150) is essential and sufficient for depressive-like behaviours in mice via a palmitoylation-dependent mechanism. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Depressive-like behaviours in mice were induced by chronic restraint stress (CRS) and chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). Palmitoylated proteins in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) were assessed by an acyl-biotin exchange assay. Genetic and pharmacological approaches were used to investigate the role of the DHHC2-mediated AKAP150 palmitoylation signalling pathway in depressive-like behaviours. Electrophysiological recording, western blotting and co-immunoprecipitation were performed to define the mechanistic pathway. KEY RESULTS: Chronic stress successfully induced depressive-like behaviours in mice and enhanced AKAP150 palmitoylation in the BLA, and a palmitoylation inhibitor was enough to reverse these changes. Blocking the AKAP150-PKA interaction with the peptide Ht-31 abolished the CRS-induced AKAP150 palmitoylation signalling pathway. DHHC2 expression and palmitoylation levels were both increased after chronic stress. DHHC2 knockdown prevented CRS-induced depressive-like behaviours, as well as attenuating AKAP150 signalling and synaptic transmission in the BLA in CRS-treated mice. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: These results delineate that DHHC2 modulates chronic stress-induced depressive-like behaviours and synaptic transmission in the BLA via the AKAP150 palmitoylation signalling pathway, and this pathway may be considered as a promising novel therapeutic target for major depressive disorder.
10.1186/s12964-023-01366-z$$$BACKGROUND: Abnormal activation of FAK is associated with tumor development and metastasis. Through interactions with other intracellular signalling molecules, FAK influences cytoskeletal remodelling, modulation of adhesion signalling, and activation of transcription factors, promoting migration and invasion of tumor cells. However, the exact mechanism that regulates these processes remains unresolved. Herein, our findings indicate that the S-palmitoylation of FAK is crucial for both its membrane localization and activation. METHODS: The palmitoylation of FAK in U251 and T98G cells was assessed by an acyl-PEG exchange (APE) assay and a metabolic incorporation assay. Cellular palmitoylation was inhibited using 2-bromopalmitate, and the palmitoylation status and cellular localization of FAK were determined. A metabolic incorporation assay was used to identify the potential palmitoyl acyltransferase and the palmitoylation site of FAK. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8) assays, colony formation assays, and Transwell assays were conducted to assess the impact of ZDHHC5 in GBM. Additionally, intracranial GBM xenografts were utilized to investigate the effects of genetically silencing ZDHHC5 on tumor growth. RESULTS: Inhibiting FAK palmitoylation leads to its redistribution from the membrane to the cytoplasm and a decrease in its phosphorylation. Moreover, ZDHHC5, a protein-acyl-transferase (PAT), catalyzes this key modification of FAK at C456. Knockdown of ZDHHC5 abrogates the S-palmitoylation and membrane distribution of FAK and impairs cell proliferation, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Taken together, our research reveals the crucial role of ZDHHC5 as a PAT responsible for FAK S-palmitoylation, membrane localization, and activation. CONCLUSIONS: These results imply that targeting the ZDHHC5/FAK axis has the potential to be a promising strategy for therapeutic interventions for glioblastoma (GBM). Video Abstract.
10.7150/thno.89602$$$The hypothalamus plays a fundamental role in controlling lipid metabolism through neuroendocrine signals. However, there are currently no available drug targets in the hypothalamus that can effectively improve human lipid metabolism. In this study, we found that the antimalarial drug artemether (ART) significantly improved lipid metabolism by specifically inhibiting microglial activation in the hypothalamus of high-fat diet-induced mice. Mechanically, ART protects the thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) neurons surrounding microglial cells from inflammatory damage and promotes the release of TRH into the peripheral circulation. As a result, TRH stimulates the synthesis of thyroid hormone (TH), leading to a significant improvement in hepatic lipid disorders. Subsequently, we employed a biotin-labeled ART chemical probe to identify the direct cellular target in microglial cells as protein kinase Cdelta (PKCdelta). Importantly, ART directly targeted PKCdelta to inhibit its palmitoylation modification by blocking the binding of zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 5 (ZDHHC5), which resulted in the inhibition of downstream neuroinflammation signaling. In vivo, hypothalamic microglia-specific PKCdelta knockdown markedly impaired ART-dependent neuroendocrine regulation and lipid metabolism improvement in mice. Furthermore, single-cell transcriptomics analysis in human brain tissues revealed that the level of PKCdelta in microglia positively correlated with individuals who had hyperlipemia, thereby highlighting a clinical translational value. Collectively, these data suggest that the palmitoylation of microglial PKCdelta in the hypothalamus plays a role in modulating peripheral lipid metabolism through hypothalamus-liver communication, and provides a promising therapeutic target for fatty liver diseases.
10.1016/j.canlet.2024.216619$$$The cystine/glutamate antiporter SLC7A11, as the key regulator of ferroptosis, functions to transport cystine for glutathione biosynthesis and antioxidant defense. Accumulating evidence has shown that SLC7A11 is overexpressed in multiple human cancers and promotes tumor growth and progression. However, the exact mechanism underlying this key protein remains unclear. In this study, we confirmed that SLC7A11 is S-palmitoylated in glioblastoma, and this modification is required for SLC7A11 protein stability. Moreover, we revealed that ZDHHC8, a member of the protein palmitoyl transferases (PATs), catalyzes S-palmitoylation of SLC7A11 at Cys327, thereby decreasing the ubiquitination level of SLC7A11. Furthermore, AMPKalpha1 directly phosphorylates ZDHHC8 at S299, strengthening the interaction between ZDHHC8 and SLC7A11, leading to SLC7A11 S-palmitoylation and deubiquitination. Functional investigations showed that ZDHHC8 knockdown impairs glioblastoma (GBM) cell survival via promoting intracellular ferroptosis events, which could be largely rescued by ectopic expression of SLC7A11. Clinically, ZDHHC8 expression positively correlates with SLC7A11 and AMPKalpha1 expression in clinical glioma specimens. This study underscores that ZDHHC8-mediated SLC7A11 S-palmitoylation is critical for ferroptosis resistance during GBM tumorigenesis, indicating a novel treatment strategy for GBM.
10.1016/j.foodchem.2024.138560$$$Based on multivariate statistics, this review compared major triacylglycerols (TAGs) in animal milk and human milk fat from China and other countries. Human milk fat differs from animal milk fat in that it has longer acyl chains and higher concentrations of 1,3-dioleoyl-2-palmitoyl-glycerol (O-P-O) and 1-oleoyl-2-palmitoyl-3-linoleoylglycerol (O-P-L). O-P-L is a significant and distinct TAG in human milk fat, particularly in China. 1-oleoyl-2-palmitoyl-3-linoleoylglycerol (OPL) is human milk's major triglyceride molecule of O-P-L, accounting for more than 70%. As a result, OPL has piqued the interest of Chinese academics. The synthesis process and nutritional outcomes of OPL have been studied, including changes in gut microbiota, serum lipid composition, improved fatty acid and calcium absorption, and increased total bile acid levels. However, current OPL research is limited. Therefore, this review discussed enzymatic preparation of 1,3-dioleoyl-2-palmitoyl-glycerol (OPO) and OPL and their nutritional and physiological activity to direct future research direction for sn-2 palmitate and OPL.
10.1038/s41419-024-06456-5$$$The Western diet, characterized by its high content of long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs), is widely recognized as a significant triggering factor for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). While the link between a high-fat diet and colitis has been observed, the specific effects and mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Our study provides evidence that the diet rich in LCFAs can disrupt the integrity of the intestinal barrier and exacerbate experimental colitis in mice. Mechanistically, LCFAs upregulate the signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) pathway in the inflammatory model, and STAT3 knockout effectively counters the pro-inflammatory effects of LCFAs on colitis. Specifically, palmitic acid (PA), a representative LCFA, enters intestinal epithelial cells via the cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36) pathway and participates in the palmitoylation cycle of STAT3. Inhibiting this cycle using pharmacological inhibitors like 2-Bromopalmitate (2-BP) and ML349, as well as DHHC7 knockdown, has the ability to alleviate inflammation induced by PA. These findings highlight the significant role of dietary LCFAs, especially PA, in the development and progression of IBD. Diet adjustments and targeted modulation offer potential therapeutic strategies for managing this condition. Model of LCFAs involvement in the palmitoylation cycle of STAT3 upon internalization into cells. Following cellular uptake through CD36, LCFAs are converted to palmitoyl-CoA. In the presence of DHHC7, palmitoyl-CoA binds to STAT3 at the C108 site, forming palmitoylated STAT3. Palmitoylation further promotes phosphorylation at the Y705 site of STAT3. Subsequently, palmitoylated STAT3 undergoes depalmitoylation by APT2 and translocates to the nucleus to exert its biological functions.
10.1039/d3an02059b$$$Protein S-acylation is an important lipid modification characteristic for heterogeneity in the acyl chain and dynamicity in the acylation/deacylation cycle. Most S-acylproteomic research has been limited by indirect identification of modified proteins/peptides without attached fatty acids, resulting in the failure to precisely characterize S-acylated sites with attached fatty acids. The study of S-acylation turnover is still limited at the protein level. Herein, aiming to site-specifically profile both the heterogeneity and the turnover of S-acylation, we first developed a site-specific strategy for intact S-acylated peptide analysis by introducing an acid cleavable bioorthogonal tag into a metabolic labelling method (ssMLCC). The cleavable bioorthogonal tag allowed for the selective enrichment and efficient MS analysis of intact S-acylated peptides so that S-acylated sites and their attached fatty acids could be directly analysed, enabling the precise mapping of S-acylated sites, as well as circumventing false positives from previous studies. Moreover, 606 S-palmitoylated (C16:0) sites of 441 proteins in HeLa cells were identified. All types of S-acylated peptides were further characterized by an open search, providing site-specific profiling of acyl chain heterogeneity, including S-myristoylation, S-palmitoylation, S-palmitoleylation, and S-oleylation. Furthermore, site-specific monitoring of S-palmitoylation turnover was achieved by coupling with pulse-chase methods, facilitating the detailed observation of the dynamic event at each site in multi-palmitoylated proteins, and 85 rapidly cycling palmitoylated sites in 79 proteins were identified. This study provided a strategy for the precise and comprehensive analysis of protein S-acylation based on intact S-acylated peptide analysis, contributing to the further understanding of its complexity and biological functions.
10.1021/acsnano.3c09968$$$The combination of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) and chemotherapy has shown significant potential in the clinical treatment of various cancers. However, circulating regeneration of PD-L1 within tumor cells greatly limits the efficiency of chemo-immunotherapy and consequent patient response rates. Herein, we report the synthesis of a nanoparticle-based PD-L1 inhibitor (FRS) with a rational design for effective endogenous PD-L1 suppression. The nanoinhibitor is achieved through self-assembly of fluoroalkylated competitive peptides that target PD-L1 palmitoylation. The FRS nanoparticles provide efficient protection and delivery of functional peptides to the cytoplasm of tumors, showing greater inhibition of PD-L1 than nonfluorinated peptidic inhibitors. Moreover, we demonstrate that FRS synergizes with chemotherapeutic doxorubicin (DOX) to boost the antitumor activities via simultaneous reduction of PD-L1 abundance and induction of immunogenic cell death in murine colon tumor models. The nano strategy of PD-L1 regulation present in this study is expected to advance the development of ICB inhibitors and overcome the limitations of conventional ICB-assisted chemo-immunotherapy.
10.3892/mmr.2023.13141$$$Salusin‑beta and adiponectin receptor 1 (adipoR1) serve important roles in the development of certain cardiovascular diseases and lipid metabolism. However, to the best of our knowledge, the relationship between salusin‑beta and adipoR1, and their underlying mechanisms of action, currently remain unclear. In the present study, lentiviral vectors designed to overexpress salusin‑beta or knock down salusin‑beta expression were used in 293T and HepG2 cells. Semi‑quantitative PCR was performed to investigate the relationship between salusin‑beta and adipoR1 mRNA expression in 293T cells. Western blotting was used to assess the protein expression levels of adipoR1, adenosine monophosphate‑activated protein kinase (AMPK), acetyl‑CoA carboxylase (ACC) and carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1A (CPT‑1A) in transfected HepG2 cells. Simultaneously, HepG2 cells were treated with an adipoR1 inhibitor (thapsigargin) or agonist (AdipoRon) and the resultant changes in the expression levels of the aforementioned proteins were observed. Oil Red O staining and measurements of cellular triglyceride levels were performed to assess the extent of lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells. The results demonstrated that salusin‑beta overexpression downregulated adipoR1 expression and inhibited the phosphorylation of AMPK and ACC, which led to decreased CPT‑1A protein expression. By contrast, salusin‑beta knockdown increased adipoR1 expression and promoted the phosphorylation of AMPK and ACC, which conversely enhanced CPT‑1A protein expression. Treatment with adipoR1 agonist, AdipoRon, reversed the effects of salusin‑beta overexpression. In addition, salusin‑beta overexpression enhanced intracellular lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells induced by free fatty acid treatment. These findings highlighted the potential regulatory role of salusin‑beta in adipoR1‑mediated signaling pathways. To conclude, the present study provided insights into the regulation of fatty acid metabolism by the liver. In particular, salusin‑beta may serve as a potential target for the therapeutic intervention of metabolic disorders of lipids.
10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-23-2266$$$Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) chemoresistance hampers the ability to effectively treat patients. Identification of mechanisms driving chemoresistance can lead to strategies to improve treatment. Here, we revealed that protein arginine methyltransferase-1 (PRMT1) simultaneously methylates D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), a critical enzyme in serine synthesis, and the glycolytic enzymes PFKFB3 and PKM2 in TNBC cells. 13C metabolic flux analyses showed that PRMT1 methylation of these three enzymes diverts glucose toward intermediates in the serine-synthesizing and serine/glycine cleavage pathways, thereby accelerating the production of methyl donors in TNBC cells. Mechanistically, PRMT1-dependent methylation of PHGDH at R54 or R20 activated its enzymatic activity by stabilizing 3-phosphoglycerate binding and suppressing polyubiquitination. PRMT1-mediated PHGDH methylation drove chemoresistance independently of glutathione synthesis. Rather, activation of the serine synthesis pathway supplied alpha-ketoglutarate and citrate to increase palmitate levels through activation of fatty acid synthase (FASN). Increased palmitate induced protein S-palmitoylation of PHGDH and FASN to further enhance fatty acid synthesis in a PRMT1-dependent manner. Loss of PRMT1 or pharmacological inhibition of FASN or protein S-palmitoyltransferase reversed chemoresistance in TNBC. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry coupled with imaging mass spectrometry in clinical TNBC specimens substantiated that PRMT1-mediated methylation of PHGDH, PFKFB3, and PKM2 correlates with chemoresistance and that metabolites required for methylation and fatty acid synthesis are enriched in TNBC. Together, these results suggest that enhanced de novo fatty acid synthesis mediated by coordinated protein arginine methylation and protein S-palmitoylation is a therapeutic target for overcoming chemoresistance in TNBC.
10.1038/s41594-023-01183-5$$$Palmitoylation of cysteine residues at the C-terminal hypervariable regions in human HRAS and NRAS, which is necessary for RAS signaling, is catalyzed by the acyltransferase DHHC9 in complex with its accessory protein GCP16. The molecular basis for the acyltransferase activity and the regulation of DHHC9 by GCP16 is not clear. Here we report the cryo-electron microscopy structures of the human DHHC9-GCP16 complex and its yeast counterpart-the Erf2-Erf4 complex, demonstrating that GCP16 and Erf4 are not directly involved in the catalytic process but stabilize the architecture of DHHC9 and Erf2, respectively. We found that a phospholipid binding to an arginine-rich region of DHHC9 and palmitoylation on three residues (C24, C25 and C288) were essential for the catalytic activity of the DHHC9-GCP16 complex. Moreover, we showed that GCP16 also formed complexes with DHHC14 and DHHC18 to catalyze RAS palmitoylation. These findings provide insights into the regulatory mechanism of RAS palmitoyltransferases.
10.1016/j.vetmic.2023.109932$$$Bovine herpesvirus 1(BoHV-1) is an important bovine pathogen that causes great economic loss to cattle farms worldwide. The virus-productive infection in bovine kidney (MDBK) cells results in ATP depletion. The mechanisms are not well understood. Mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) is an important energy source in many tissues with high energy demand. Since carnitine palmitoyl-transferase 1 A (CPT1A) is the rate-limiting enzyme of FAO, we investigated the interactions between virus-productive infection and CPT1A signaling. Here, we found that virus-productive infection at the later stage significantly decreased CPT1A protein levels in all the detected cells, including MDBK, A549, and Neuro-2A cells, differentially altered the accumulation of CPT1A proteins in the nucleus and cytosol, and re-localized the protein in the nucleus. Etomoxir (ETO), an irreversible inhibitor of CPT1A, inhibited viral replication and partially interfered with the ability of BoHV-1 to alter CPT1A accumulation in the nucleus but not in the cytosol. Furthermore, ETO consistently reduced RNA levels of two viral regulatory proteins (bICP0 and bICP22) and protein expression of virion-associated proteins during productive infection, further supporting the important roles of CPT1A signaling in BoHV-1 productive infection. These data, for the first time, suggest that CPT1A is potentially involved in BoHV-1 productive infection.
10.1515/jpem-2023-0298$$$OBJECTIVES: Carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPT II) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder of long-chain fatty acid oxidation. Three clinical phenotypes, lethal neonatal form, severe infantile hepatocardiomuscular form, and myopathic form, have been described in CPT II deficiency. The myopathic form is usually mild and can manifest from infancy to adulthood, characterised by recurrent rhabdomyolysis episodes. The study aimed to investigate the clinical features, biochemical, histopathological, and genetic findings of 13 patients diagnosed with the myopathic form of CPT II deficiency at Ege University Hospital. METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted with 13 patients with the myopathic form of CPT II deficiency. Our study considered demographic data, triggers of recurrent rhabdomyolysis attacks, biochemical metabolic screening, and molecular analysis. RESULTS: Ten patients were examined for rhabdomyolysis of unknown causes. Two patients were diagnosed during family screening, and one was diagnosed during investigations due to increased liver function tests. Acylcarnitine profiles were normal in five patients during rhabdomyolysis. Genetic studies have identified a c.338C>T (p.Ser113Leu) variant homozygous in 10 patients. One patient showed a novel frameshift variant compound heterozygous with c.338C>T (p.Ser113Leu). CONCLUSIONS: Plasma acylcarnitine analysis should be preferred as it is superior to DBS acylcarnitine analysis in diagnosing CPT II deficiency. Even if plasma acylcarnitine analysis is impossible, CPT2 gene analysis should be performed. Our study emphasizes that CPT II deficiency should be considered in the differential diagnosis of recurrent rhabdomyolysis, even if typical acylcarnitine elevation does not accompany it.
10.1038/nchembio.405$$$Identification of immune effectors and the post-translational modifications that control their activity is essential for dissecting mechanisms of immunity. Here we demonstrate that the antiviral activity of interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is post-translationally regulated by S-palmitoylation. Large-scale profiling of palmitoylated proteins in a dendritic cell line using a chemical reporter strategy revealed over 150 lipid-modified proteins with diverse cellular functions, including innate immunity. We discovered that S-palmitoylation of IFITM3 on membrane-proximal cysteines controls its clustering in membrane compartments and its antiviral activity against influenza virus. The sites of S-palmitoylation are highly conserved among the IFITM family of proteins in vertebrates, which suggests that S-palmitoylation of these immune effectors may be an ancient post-translational modification that is crucial for host resistance to viral infections. The S-palmitoylation and clustering of IFITM3 will be important for elucidating its mechanism of action and for the design of antiviral therapeutics.
10.1016/j.cell.2023.11.043$$$Pregnancy induces dramatic metabolic changes in females; yet, the intricacies of this metabolic reprogramming remain poorly understood, especially in primates. Using cynomolgus monkeys, we constructed a comprehensive multi-tissue metabolome atlas, analyzing 273 samples from 23 maternal tissues during pregnancy. We discovered a decline in metabolic coupling between tissues as pregnancy progressed. Core metabolic pathways that were rewired during primate pregnancy included steroidogenesis, fatty acid metabolism, and arachidonic acid metabolism. Our atlas revealed 91 pregnancy-adaptive metabolites changing consistently across 23 tissues, whose roles we verified in human cell models and patient samples. Corticosterone and palmitoyl-carnitine regulated placental maturation and maternal tissue progenitors, respectively, with implications for maternal preeclampsia, diabetes, cardiac hypertrophy, and muscle and liver regeneration. Moreover, we found that corticosterone deficiency induced preeclampsia-like inflammation, indicating the atlas's potential clinical value. Overall, our multi-tissue metabolome atlas serves as a framework for elucidating the role of metabolic regulation in female health during pregnancy.
10.1038/s41420-023-01770-x$$$Liver metastasis is the major reason for most of colorectal cancer (CRC) related deaths. Accumulating evidence indicates that CRC patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are at a greater risk of developing liver metastasis. With the growing prevalence of NAFLD, a better understanding of the molecular mechanism in NAFLD-driven CRC liver metastasis is needed. In this study, we demonstrated that NAFLD facilitated CRC liver metastasis as a metabolic disorder and promoted the stemness of metastatic CRC cells for their colonization and outgrowth in hepatic niches. Metabolically, the lipid-rich microenvironment in NAFLD activated de novo palmitate biosynthesis in metastatic CRC cells via upregulating fatty acid synthase (FASN). Moreover, increased intracellular palmitate bioavailability promoted EGFR palmitoylation to enhance its protein stability and plasma membrane localization. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the FDA-approved FASN inhibitor orlistat could reduce NAFLD-activated endogenous palmitate production, thus inhibiting palmitoylation of EGFR to suppress CRC cell stemness and restrict liver metastasis in synergy with conventional chemotherapy. These findings reveal that the NAFLD metabolic microenvironment boosts endogenous palmitate biosynthesis in metastatic CRC cells and promotes cell stemness via EGFR palmitoylation, and FASN inhibitor orlistat could be a candidate adjuvant drug to suppress liver metastasis in CRC patients with NAFLD.
10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116267$$$PD-L1 is an important immune checkpoint protein that can bind to T cells' PD-1 receptor, thereby promoting immune escape from tumors. In recent years, many researchers have developed strategies to degrade PD-L1 to improve the effect of immunotherapy. The study of degrading PD-L1 provides new opportunities for immunotherapy. Here, we mainly summarize and review the current active molecules and mechanisms that mediate the degradation of immature and mature PD-L1 during the post-translational modification stages, involving PD-L1 phosphorylation, glycosylation, palmitoylation, ubiquitination, and the autophagy-lysosomal process. This review expects that by degrading PD-L1 protein, we will not only gain a better understanding of oncogenic mechanisms involving tumor PD-L1 protein but also provide a new way to improve immunotherapy.
10.1002/anie.202318784$$$Plitidepsin (or dehydrodidemnin B), an approved anticancer drug, belongs to the didemnin family of cyclic depsipeptides, which are found in limited quantities in marine tunicate extracts. Herein, we introduce a new approach that integrates microbial and chemical synthesis to generate plitidepsin and its analogues. We screened a Tistrella strain library to identify a potent didemnin B producer, and then introduced a second copy of the didemnin biosynthetic gene cluster into its genome, resulting in a didemnin B titer of approximately 75 mg/L. Next, we developed two straightforward chemical strategies to convert didemnin B into plitidepsin, one of which involved a one-step synthetic route giving over 90 % overall yield. Furthermore, we synthesized 13 new didemnin derivatives and three didemnin probes, enabling research into structure-activity relationships and interactions between didemnin and proteins. Our study highlights the synergistic potential of biosynthesis and chemical synthesis in overcoming the challenge of producing complex natural products sustainably and at scale.
10.1111/cas.16085$$$Platinum-based therapies have revolutionized the treatment of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC). However, high rates of disease recurrence and progression remain a major clinical concern. Impaired mitochondrial function and dysregulated reactive oxygen species (ROS), hallmarks of cancer, hold potential as therapeutic targets for selectively sensitizing cisplatin treatment. Here, we uncover an oncogenic role of the palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC12 in regulating mitochondrial function and ROS homeostasis in HGSOC cells. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) ovarian cancer data revealed significantly elevated ZDHHC12 expression, demonstrating the strongest positive association with ROS pathways among all ZDHHC enzymes. Transcriptomic analysis of independent ovarian cancer datasets and the SNU119 cell model corroborated this association, highlighting a strong link between ZDHHC12 expression and signature pathways involving mitochondrial oxidative metabolism and ROS regulation. Knockdown of ZDHHC12 disrupted this association, leading to increased cellular complexity, ATP levels, mitochondrial activity, and both mitochondrial and cellular ROS. This dysregulation, achieved by the siRNA knockdown of ZDHHC12 or treatment with the general palmitoylation inhibitor 2BP or the fatty acid synthase inhibitor C75, significantly enhanced cisplatin cytotoxicity in 2D and 3D spheroid models of HGSOC through ROS-mediated mechanisms. Markedly, ZDHHC12 inhibition significantly augmented the anti-tumor activity of cisplatin in an ovarian cancer xenograft tumor model, as well as in an ascites-derived organoid line of platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. Our data suggest the potential of ZDHHC12 as a promising target to improve the outcome of HGSOCs in response to platinum-based chemotherapy.
10.3760/cma.j.cn511374-20230112-00025$$$OBJECTIVE: To analyze the clinical data and genetic characteristics of a child with CLN1 neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis in conjunct with Hereditary hyperferritinemia cataract syndrome (HHCS). METHODS: A child who was admitted to the PICU of the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University in November 2020 was selected as the study subject. Clinical data of the child was collected. Genetic testing was carried out for the child, and the result was analyzed in the light of literature review to explore the clinical and genetic characteristics to facilitate early identification. RESULTS: The patient, a 3-year-old male, had mainly presented with visual impairment, progressive cognitive and motor regression, and epilepsy. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging revealed deepened sulci in bilateral cerebral hemispheres, and delayed myelination. The activity of palmitoyl protein thioesterase was low (8.4 nmol/g/min, reference range: 132.2 ~ 301.4 nmol/g/min), whilst serum ferritin was increased (2417.70 ng/mL, reference range: 30 ~ 400 ng/ml). Fundoscopy has revealed retinal pigment degeneration. Whole exome sequencing revealed that he has harbored c.280A>C and c.124-124+3delG compound heterozygous variants of the PPT1 gene, which were respectively inherited from his father and mother. Neither variant has been reported previously. The child has also harbored a heterozygous c.-160A>G variant of the FTL gene, which was inherited from his father. Based on the clinical phenotype and results of genetic testing, the child was diagnosed as CLN1 and HHCS. CONCLUSION: The compound heterozygous variants of the PPT1 gene probably underlay the disorders in this child. For children with CLN1 and rapidly progressing visual impairment, ophthalmological examination should be recommended, and detailed family history should be taken For those suspected for HHCS, genetic testing should be performed to confirm the diagnosis.
10.3389/fnut.2024.1341527$$$BACKGROUND: Human milk contains a complex mixture of triacylglycerols (TAG), making it challenging to recreate using common ingredients. OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to develop an innovative fermentation technique to produce essential human milk TAG, effectively tackling a significant hurdle in infant nutrition. METHOD: An in-depth analysis of the literature has been conducted to identify the specific TAG to be targeted. We used a microalgal oil production platform and a two-step procedure to modify its fatty acid and TAG composition. The palmitic acid (16:0) content has been increased by classical strain improvement techniques, followed by a step involving the expression of a lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase (LPAAT) sequence capable of esterifying 16:0 specifically at the internal position (sn-2 palmitate) of TAG. Once the strain was stabilized, the fermentation was scaled up in a 50-L reactor to yield several kilograms of biomass. Subsequently, the oil was extracted and refined using standard oil processing conditions. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was employed to monitor the TAG profile and the region specificity of 16:0 at the internal position (sn-2 palmitate) of TAG. RESULTS: The initial strain had a 16:0 level of 25% of total fatty acids, which was increased to 30% by classical strain improvement. Simultaneously, the oleic acid level decreased from 61% to 57% of total fatty acids. Upon expression of an exogenous LPAAT gene, the level of the 16:0 esterified in the internal position of the TAG (sn-2 palmitate) increased by a factor of 10, to reach 73% of total palmitic acid. Consequently, the concentration of oleic acid in the internal position decreased from 81% to 22% of total fatty acids, with TAG analysis confirming that the primary TAG species in the oil was 1,3-dioleoyl-2-palmitoyl-glycerol (OPO). The 50-L-scale fermentation trial confirmed the strain's ability to produce oil with a yield of >150 g of oil per liter of fermentation broth in a timeframe of 5 days, rendering the process scalable for larger-scale industrialization. CONCLUSION: We have demonstrated the feasibility of producing a suitable TAG composition that can be effectively integrated into the formulations of infant nutrition in combination with other fats and oils to meet the infant feeding requirements.
10.1016/j.cellsig.2024.111064$$$Abnormal inflammation of vascular endothelial cells occurs frequently in diabetic retinopathy (DR). Sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase acid-like 3B (SMPDL3B) is a lipid raft enzyme and plays an anti-inflammatory role in various diseases but its function in DR-related vascular endothelial dysfunction remains unknown. We first found that SMPDL3B expression was upregulated from week 10 to 18 in the retinal tissues of db/db mice. Particularly, the high expression of SMPDL3B was mainly observed in retinal vascular endothelium of DR mice. To interfere retinal SMPDL3B expression, adeno-associated viruses 2 (AAV-2) containing SMPDL3B specific shRNA (1233-1253 bp) were injected into the vitreous cavity of db/db mice. SMPDL3B silencing exacerbated the spontaneous DR by further activating the NF-kappaB/NLRP3 pro-inflammatory pathway. In vitro, human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (HRVECs) were infected with SMPDL3B-shRNA lentiviruses and then stimulated with 30 mM glucose (HG) for 24 h. SMPDL3B-silenced HRVECs secreted more interleukin-1beta and had enhanced nuclear p65 translocation. Notably, HG treatment induced the palmitoylation of SMPDL3B. Zinc finger DHHC-type palmitoyltransferase 5 (ZDHHC5) is a palmitoyltransferase that catalyzes the palmitoylation of its substrates, HG exposure increased the interaction between ZDHHC5 and SMPDL3B in HRVECs. 2-BP, a palmitoylation inhibitor, accelerated the protein degradation of SMPDL3B, whereas palmostatin B, a depalmitoylation inhibitor, decreased its turnover rate in HRVECs. Collectively, the present study suggests a compensatory increase of SMPDL3B in HG-treated HRVECs and the retinal tissues of DR mice, indicating that SMPDL3B may be a potential target for DR treatment.
10.1016/j.trsl.2023.09.007$$$To investigate the role of S-palmitoylation in pyroptosis following acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Myocardial ischemic injury is mainly related to the death of terminally differentiated cardiomyocytes. Pyroptosis is a new form of programmed cell death and recently is identified a potential mechanism of cardiomyocyte loss. However, the role of S-palmitoylation in pyroptosis following MI remains elusive. AMI was mimicked by permanent left anterior descending artery ligation. The palmitoylated proteins labeled by Click-iT palmitic acid were precipitated using streptavidin magnetic bead conjugate. The short-term palmitic acid dietary intake by modified western diet with palm oil for 7 days is compared with modified western diet with olive oil. Palmitoylation is increased in myocardial infarction and anoxic cardiomyocytes. Pyroptosis, but not apoptosis and necrosis, is more relevant with palmitoylation in the process of myocardial ischemia injury. The gasdermin D (GSDMD) Cys192 palmitoylation promotes its cytomembrane localization by ZDHHC14. GSDMD Cys192 palmitoylation aggravates in vitro cardiomyocyte pyroptosis. The short-term palmitic acid dietary intake or ML348 deteriorates myocardial pyroptosis, infarct size and cardiac function in AMI mice by GSDMD palmitoylation. Disulfiram antagonizes Cys192 palmitoylation of GSDMD-N-terminal and reduces myocardial pyroptosis and injury in AMI mice. We identifies ZHDDC14 induced palmitoylation as a crucial node for modulating GSDMD-N-terminal cytomembrane localization and establishes Disulfiram targeting GSDMD Cys192 palmitoylation as a potential clinical intervention for myocardial pyroptosis.
10.1186/s12964-019-0405-8$$$BACKGROUND: Binding of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) to TNF-receptor 1 (TNF-R1) can induce either cell survival or cell death. The selection between these diametrically opposed effects depends on the subcellular location of TNF-R1: plasma membrane retention leads to survival, while endocytosis leads to cell death. How the respective TNF-R1 associated signaling complexes are recruited to the distinct subcellular location is not known. Here, we identify palmitoylation of TNF-R1 as a molecular mechanism to achieve signal diversification. METHODS: Human monocytic U937 cells were analyzed. Palmitoylated proteins were enriched by acyl resin assisted capture (AcylRAC) and analyzed by western blot and mass spectrometry. Palmitoylation of TNF-R1 was validated by metabolic labeling. TNF induced depalmitoylation and involvement of APT2 was analyzed by enzyme activity assays, pharmacological inhibition and shRNA mediated knock-down. TNF-R1 palmitoylation site analysis was done by mutated TNF-R1 expression in TNF-R1 knock-out cells. Apoptosis (nuclear DNA fragmentation, caspase 3 assays), NF-kappaB activation and TNF-R1 internalization were used as biological readouts. RESULTS: We identify dynamic S-palmitoylation as a new mechanism that controls selective TNF signaling. TNF-R1 itself is constitutively palmitoylated and depalmitoylated upon ligand binding. We identified the palmitoyl thioesterase APT2 to be involved in TNF-R1 depalmitoylation and TNF induced NF-kappaB activation. Mutation of the putative palmitoylation site C248 interferes with TNF-R1 localization to the plasma membrane and thus, proper signal transduction. CONCLUSIONS: Our results introduce palmitoylation as a new layer of dynamic regulation of TNF-R1 induced signal transduction at a very early step of the TNF induced signaling cascade. Understanding the underlying mechanism may allow novel therapeutic options for disease treatment in future.
10.1111/andr.13440$$$BACKGROUND: While cannabis is the most widely used recreational drug in the world, the effects of phytocannabinoids on semen parameters and reproductive hormones remain controversial. Cannabinoid receptors are activated by these compounds at each level of the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadotropic axis. OBJECTIVES: To assess the impact of the consumption of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol on semen parameters, as well as on male reproductive hormone and endocannabinoid levels, in a cohort of young Swiss men. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The individuals in a Swiss cohort were divided according to their cannabis consumption. In the cannabis user group, we determined the delay between the last intake of cannabis and sample collection, the chronicity of use and the presence of cannabidiol in the consumed product. Urinary Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol metabolites were quantified via gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Blood phytocannabinoids, endocannabinoids and male steroids were determined via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry, and other hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadotropic axis hormones were determined via immunoassays. Semen parameters such as sperm concentration and motility were recorded using computer-assisted sperm analysis. RESULTS: Anandamide, N-palmitoyl ethanolamide, androgens, estradiol and sex hormone binding globulin levels were all higher in cannabis users, particularly in chronic, recent and cannabidiol-positive consumers. Gonadotropin levels were not significantly different in these user subpopulations, whereas prolactin and albumin concentrations were lower. In addition, cannabis users had a more basic semen pH and a higher percentage of spermatozoa with progressive motility. However, the two latter observations seem to be related to a shorter period of sexual abstinence in this group rather than to the use of cannabis. CONCLUSIONS: Because both cannabidiol and Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol are frequently used by men of reproductive age, it is highly relevant to elucidate the potential effects they may have on human reproductive health. This study demonstrates that the mode of cannabis consumption must be considered when evaluating the effect of cannabis on semen quality.
